
B.ABHISHEK 
E3-103, MS HALL OF RESIDENCE 

IIT KHARAGPUR, WEST BENGAL 721302 

 abhishekbagati@iitkgp.ac.in 
+91-7407461154 

 
Position Objective: 
 

I am looking for a challenging opportunity for an internship in the field of Electronics in the following summer and 
gain some research experience in this field. I am seeking to complement this outdoor experience with a research 
internship in order to acquire the background necessary for a future career in scientific research. 
 

Internships and Academic Projects: 
 Successfully completed an Internship at SELCO Labs, SELCO Foundation, Bengaluru with a project on   

Metering Solutions and Data-Logging for Solar Mini-Grids. The project aimed at Data-Logging using     
MSP430 and interfacing with an SD card. 

 Developed a Low Cost Automatic water level controller at SELCO Labs, Bengaluru. 
 Successfully completed an Internship at EmbeddedRF Technologies, Hyderabad with a project on 

Embedded Systems in July, 2013. The project aimed at making an attendance system model based on RFID 
Technology. 

 Successfully completed the Web-Designing course at RIMS Animation Training Center, Hyderabad. 
 Awarded a certificate of excellence in IP addressing and networking course from BSNL Online Certificate 

Program in June, 2013. 
 Designed a Wein Bridge Oscillator as a part of mini-project  aimed at making a working model of a 

            Wein Bridge Oscillator to generate 40 KHz frequency. 
 
Position of responsibilities 
 

Member                                                                                                                                    2013 - till date 
Solar Energy Society of India. 

 
Academic Achievements 

 
⦁ Qualified among top 0.90% of 550,000 in IIT JEE (Joint Entrance Examination). 
⦁    Qualified among top 0.5% of 1.18 million students in AIEEE. 
⦁    Awarded Silver Medal at Srinivasa Ramanujam Mathematics Potential Olympiad, 2006.                          
⦁    Top 10% scorers in Association of Mathematics Teachers of India Examination (AMTI), 2005. 

 
Skill set 

Programming  
⦁    C, EMBEDDED C, HTML, CSS. 

Software  
⦁    Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe 

Flash, Adobe Audition, Audacity, Code Composer Studio. 
Technical  

⦁   MATLAB, Pspice, Proteus, Keil μvision. 

Languages  
⦁   English, Hindi, Telugu, Basic Kannada, Basic Tamil. 

 Certificate Course in English Proficiency, 2012, English and Foreign Languages University 

 

 



Extra-Curricular activities 
⦁     Member of Bronze medal winning Inter hall Hockey team in 2014-15 at MS Hall, IIT Kharagpur.  
⦁     Won Bronze medal in open IIT English Dramatics, 2013 at IIT Kharagpur. 
⦁     Member of Inter hall Hockey team in 2011-12 at MMM Hall, IIT Kharagpur.                           
⦁     Member of Inter hall Athletics team in 2012-13 at MS Hall, IIT Kharagpur. 
⦁     Member of Inter hall Football team in 2012-13 at MS Hall, IIT Kharagpur.  
⦁     Member of Inter hall choreography team in 2012-13 at MS Hall, IIT Kharagpur. 
⦁     Drummer and Guitarist at Meghnad Saha Hall of Residence, IIT Kharagpur. 
⦁     Member of Inter hall Ad-design team in 2014 at MS Hall, IIT Kharagpur 

 
 

Academic Details: 
 
Fourth Year 

    Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. 
 
Relevant Courses Taken: Electrical Technology ,Introduction to Electronics, Semiconductor devices, Network 
Theory, Linear & Matrix Algebra, Signals & Systems, Electromagnetic Engineering, Analog Electronics, Analog 
Communication, Digital Communication, Digital Signal Processing, Radio Frequency & Microwave Engineering, 
Control Systems, Sociology of Science, Entrepreneurship in Social sector. 
 
Extra Courses done out of Interest: 

• Introduction to renewable energy at solar energy International (online course). 
• Solar Energy at DELFT university, Netherlands through EDX (online course)-This course introduced me to the 

variety of technologies that harvest the solar energy and solar light, and convert it to electricity, heat or fuels. 
• Introductory Solar Energy at Schoology (online course). 

 
 

I hereby declare that the above information is true and precise to the best of my knowledge.  
 
                                                                                                                           B ABHISHEK 



