Abhijeet Gupta

Abhijeet Gupta
visitabhijeet@gmail.com
+91 897 187 151 7
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY
Abhijeet Gupta

Abhijeet Gupta
visitabhijeet@gmail.com
+91 897 187 151 7
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY
Abhijeet Gupta

Abhijeet Gupta
visitabhijeet@gmail.com
+91 897 187 151 7
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY
Amrita Shukla

Abhijeet Gupta
visitabhijeet@gmail.com
+91 897 187 151 7
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

· 6+ years of work experience and strong background in Mobile application development methodology.
· Have knowledge on developing Native and Hybrid mobile applications for different platforms like I phone, Blackberry and Android through Kony MEAP platform.
· Good background in object oriented design and development of (n-tier) applications

· I have an exposure of 11 months at client side in full application development cycle in agile methodology with tight deadline.
· Have extensive background in software development and porting experience on different platforms like J2ME, Android, Symbian, BlackBerry and Core Java.
· Received star performer award many times for special efforts and significant contribution to project and client satisfaction.
ACADEMICS 

· M.TECH (C.S) from School of Computer Science, DAVV with 10 GGPA (92%).
· Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Computer Science and Engineering from MITM, Indore with 65.13 %.
PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATIONS

· Kony Certified Developer in Kony Studio 4.1.
· Sun Certified Programmer for J2SE 1.4 SCJP 310-35.
· IBM Certified Associate Developer Web Sphere Studio V5.0.
· IBM Certified Database Associate DB2 Universal Database V8.1 Family.
TECHNICAL SUMMARY

	SKILLS
	TOOLS
	EXPERIENCE LEVEL 

	IDE / TOOL
	Net Beans IDE, Eclipse IDE, Sun WTK, LWUIT, WinCVS, Kony Studio

	5

	LANGUAGE
	Android, Java( (Core), J2ME, Lua , JSON, XML
	4



	OS / SDK
	Java ME, Android
	4

	RDBMS
	SQLite
	4

	Connectivity Services
	XML , JSON and WSDL
	4


· All rankings are out of 5
WORK HISTORY

	Duration
	Organization
	Designation

	April 2012- till now
	Misys Software Solutions (India) Pvt Ltd
	Senior Software Engineer

	Aug 2006 to March 2012
	Impetus InfoTech Pvt. Ltd.
Senior Software Engineer


WORK EXPERIENCE
Project  1:   Misys Mobile Transaction Banking (MMTB) 

Misys transaction banking solutions help banks to make the most of the financial services they offer by dramatically improving the customer's experience of doing business with them.
By making it easy for a corporate to transact with its bank, Misys is helping that bank to reduce cost-to-income ratios.
Activities Performed (Senior Software Engineer): 

1. Doing Analysis and Feasibility of different implementation of required functionality.
2. Development of different modules in Kony studion  for diffetent platforms like Android, BlackBerry and IPhone.
Environment and tools used :  Kony Studio, Lua,Android,XCode, Eclipse
Duration:                                      Apr ‘12 – till now
Project 2:   Kronos WorkForce  Mobile 

Workforce Mobile is a Kronos product that uses mobile technology to improve workforce communication and access to information.There are two types of users: Manager and Employees.
Employees can access various types of functionalities like punch in[timecards], punch out, viewing schedules, requesting timeoffs, and on the other hand, the managers can also view the requests, punches, schedules, and other information of their employees on their mobiles.
Activities Performed (Senior Software Engineer): 

3. Doing Analysis and Feasibility of different open source BarCode Reader API.

4. Development of a component  using ZXing library which can be plug-in with current Kronos Application.
Environment and tools used :  J2ME, Android, LWUIT, Ant, Eclipse
Duration:                                      July ‘11 –Mar ‘12 
Project 3 :  JustGrow
Justgrow, an Android app helps in reaching out to your friends / customers through personalized, targeted and relevant messages through multiple channels of communication e.g.
SMS, EMail, Facebook and Twitter.
You can create a message or use existing templates and send it to multiple friends / customers through various channels at the same time.
Activities Performed (Role- Lead – managed team of 2): 

· Developing application from scratch for designing UI screens and business logic for rendering data.
· Performing unit testing and fixing of bugs.
Environment and tools used:  
Eclipse , Android SDK, Java
Duration:


Nov ‘10 – Jun ‘11
                                                                                                                                                                                         Project 4:   GoConnect
GoConnect application aims to provide solutions to the pains arising when buyers and sellers connect with each other in everyday transactions.
It would provide the facility to add/invite users, place orders, account creation, view money owed, creation of identity, finding business and creating campaigns.
Activities Performed (Role- Senior Software Engineer): 

· Developing UI screens and business logic for rendering data.
· Developing architecture structure for RMS.
· Performing unit testing and fixing of bugs.
· Worked under tight deadlines at client side (Bangalore) with coordination on client side team for a period of 11 months.
Environment and tools used
:  J2ME, LWUIT, SUN WTK, Eclipse
Duration


:  May ‘09 – Nov ’10

Project 5:   LearnNFun ABC(Edutainment)
This application is designed as a complete pre-school preparation course for kids, to help them to write and test their skills of English Alphabets with their Mobile.
An attractive combination of voice effect, animation & graphic will persuade kids to be entertained & still learn alphabets through this application.
This application is selected in top 5 applications in Orange competion.
Activities Performed (Role: Lead)

· Requirement gathering and analyzing functional Specification for the product.
· Managing of team with Development of application 

Environment and tools used
:  J2ME, ANT, Eclipse, Netbeans and SVN 

Duration  


:  Mar ‘09 – Jul ’09                         
Project 6:   NeuStar NGM 
NGM is a New Generation Messenger for client NeuStar Inc, Israel.
They provide Instant Messaging Services on mobile phones.
It has group of Communities with advanced features in exiting messenger through which user can login, send and receive IMs, Add Contact etc. 

Activities Performed (Role: Software Engineer)

· Porting of application for different group of devices which includes Nokia series 40 and series 60 devices, Sony Ericson JP 6 onwards, Motorola Linux devices.
· Fixing of reported generic bugs.
· Implementation of enhancement features like touch screen and landscape to portrait mode.
Environment and tools used
:  Low level and High Level API of J2ME , Eclipse
Duration  


:  Jul ‘07 - Mar ‘09










Project 7:   MYahooMessenger
This application is to develop application which will perform same functionality as provided by Yahoo messenger in desktop.
The application UI is according to series 60 handset.
This application provides all main features as provided by Yahoo Messenger except some features which have restriction at mobile side.
Activities Performed (Role: Software Engineer)

· Analyzing and developing Network communication Protocol

· Developing application using international standard i.e IMPS 

· Developing server side components 

Environment and tools used
:  Low level and High Level API of J2ME , Eclipse
Duration  


:  Mar ’07-July ‘07
Project 8:   iTraceU
This mobile application helps you to trace your mobile handset when it lost.
This application send SMS`s when there is change of SIM occurs in handset.
This application is developed for Symbian series 60 2nd edition handsets.
Symbian Database is used for storing and retrieving mobile number.
SMS will be sending to this numbers when the system identifies SIM change.
Activities Performed (Role: Associate Software Engineer)

· Requirement gathering and feasibility study.
· Studying Symbian and developing application using that technology 

· Developing server side components 

Environment and tools used
:  Symbian, Java,VC++ IDE

Duration  


:    Feb ’07- Mar‘07
Project 9:   Mtraffic Lanes
This mobile application helps you to find the traffic condition at a particular place.
It uses GPS receiver for identify the longitude and latitude of current handset.
This information is passed to yahoo map, which will provide the status of traffic in past seven days at particular interval of time.
Activities Performed (Role: Associate Software Engineer)

· Requirement gathering and feasibility study.
· Studying and finding best available map service.
· Designing and developing Network communication protocol.
Environment and tools used
:  J2ME, Java (Server Side)
Duration  


:    Nov ’06- Jan‘07









Project 10:   MDating
This application is Dating application, which provides you facility of creating and searching profile.
This application has facility of sending and receiving flirts, sending IM`s and messages.
Activities Performed (Role: Associate Software Engineer)

· Developing Server side components.
· Designing and developing Network communication protocol.
Environment and tools used
:  Sept ’06- Nov‘06
Page 1 of 4



Abhishek Kumar
      Kiran Niwas, House No-377,
      BTM 2nd Stage,23 Main,
      Bangalore-560076
      
	
E-Mail Id: abhi.er2@gmail.com
Contact No : [+91] 7676315766



Objective:  

A position in the software industry seeking challenging avenues where my technical experience, educational potential and team work match the growth and Strength of the organization and to contribute to organizational goals with betterment of my career prospects and equipping myself with rich technical skills.
Experience Summary/Strengths:

· Having 6.4 years of experience in application development for handheld devices using Google’s ANDROID Platform, Core Java, J2ME.
· Having 2 years of Experience in Google’s ANDROID Platform.
· Expertise in working with Core Java, Java micro-edition Platform(MIDP 1.0/2.0/2.1) and Google Android(SDK 1.5/1.6/2.3),Tools(Dalvik
Debug Monitor Service)
· Working experience in AGILE SOFTWARE METHODOLGIES.
· A key team player and have demonstrated leadership qualities while working on previous projects.
· A self-starter and can drive projects to completion.
Technical Skills: 
       
Programming Languages: Core Java, Android, J2ME (Midp 1.0-2.0,
Cldc 1.0-1.1),
JavaScript, XML.
Tools/DB/Packages       : Eclipse, DDMS, Wireless Tool Kit, SQLite3
Operating Systems	        : Windows, Android

Education Qualifications:

· B.E (Electronics) from Rajiv Gandhi Technical University, Bhopal with First Division (68 %) in the year 2001-2005.
· 10+2 Science Stream from B.I.E.C Board in the year 1999.
· 10th from I.C.S.E Board in the year 1997.
Professional Experience:

I am currently associated with HCL Technologies as Technical lead.
All these days, I am giving trainings on Android and mobile technologies.
I am also going through various trainings myself, more of self-study in nature to keep myself up to date with latest technologies.
To be specific, Android and Core Java are my areas of keen interest.
Previous Experience:
· May 2010 to July 2012 –- Senior Software Engineer in L&T InfoTech, Bangalore.
· April 2007 to May 2010 -- Software Engineer in Atom Technologies Limited, Mumbai.
It is a digital, retail initiative of Financial Technologies (India) Limited.
http://www.ftindia.Com, http://www.atomtech.In
· Nov 2006 to April 2007 -- Software Engineer in Spiel Studios, Mumbai.
· July 2006 to Nov 2006 -- Software Engineer in Chakra Interactive Pvt Ltd, Mumbai.
Project Profile:

L&T Infotech (13 May 2010 to 20 July 2012):

PROJECT 1
Project Name   :  Remote Data Collection
Duration           :  7 Nov 2011 to 28 March 2012
Team Size        : 4
Technologies & Tool: Android SDK(Android 2.3) Java, Eclipse.
Responsibilities: Implementing the Bluetooth API Part of the Application.
Implementing the Database part using SQLite.
Involved in designing the UI Screens.
Project Summary: Design and develop Android Application software which uses Bluetooth technology to accept compressor data and send it to remote server through GPRS.
PROJECT 2
Project Name   :  Sprint D700 Handset Support for Android
Duration           :  2 March 2011 to 20 October 2011
Team Size        : 25
Technologies & Tool: Gingerbread(Android 2.3),Eclipse, Java, Beyond Compare.
Project Summary: The scope of the project is to port the Android framework to Android 2.3(Gingerbread) from Android 2.2 (Froyo).
It involves software porting, software implementation of new requirements, process/work documentation and maintenance of existing software for the phone.
It involves enhancement of phone UI and its functionality, design and implementation of applications/enhancement requirements implementation for Samsung Handsets.
The project activity also included adding new features, verifying and fixing the performance issues and modification in framework.
PROJECT 4
Project Name   :  Maps Application in J2me for S40 device [NOKIA Client Side] 
Duration           :  26 Oct 2010 to 23 Feb 2011
Team Size        : 7
Technologies & Tool: Core Java, J2ME (MIDP 2.1, CLDC 1.1), Eclipse 3.4, Nokia S40 SDK.
Responsibilities: Involved in User Interface (UI) development.
Involved in Analysis, Design & Development of Application.
Project Summary: This Project is a S40 Nokia Maps Application.It provides Location Based services like My Position,Search Places and POIs,Route Plan.Maps is configured to support features of Touch & Type and Full Touch.
PROJECT 6
Project Name   :  Twitter for Android Mobile 
Duration           :  24 May 2010 to 19 Oct 2010
Team Size        : 5
Technologies & Tool: Android SDK 1.6,Java,ADT 0.9.5,Eclipse v3.4
Responsibilities: Creating Project Structure and Project document,Creating Case Study and Architecture document,Involved in User Interface(UI) development.
Project Summary: Application is a user interface of Twitter web site on Android Mobile.User after logged in, can tweet,re-tweet and check follower.User can see and modify their profile settings.
Atom Technologies (23 April 2007 to 7 May 2010):

PROJECT 7
Project Name      : atom sewa(Android,J2me)
Duration           :  24 Sep 2009 to 22 Apr 2010
Team Size            : 4
Technologies & Tool: Android 1.6, J2ME (MIDP 2.0, CLDC 1.0, JSRs), Eclipse 
Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design & development of application, designing the generalized component for Application.
Developed Module To Recover And Delete The Data from Database.
Code Optimization to support large number of Devices.
Project Summary: atom sewa is an initiative towards Micro Finance services.atom
sewa makes the micro finance institution more effective and viable by using wireless phones which captures the customer’s data(Enrollment,Loan Details,Loan repayments and Loan disbursement) and transfers it to the server over the Gprs.The process helps banks and MFI’s in monitoring of the transaction on real time basis.
PROJECT 8
Project Name      : atomlite
Duration           :  17 Mar 2008 to 28 Aug 2009
Team Size            : 4
Technologies & Tool: Core Java, J2ME (MIDP 2.0, CLDC 1.0,JSRs), Eclipse 
Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design & development.
Developed Module To Recover And Delete The Data From Database (RMS).
Optimization of Code to Supports large number of Devices.
Project Summary: atomlite is a fast, secure, inter-operable and the most convenient way to make payments using a mobile.
It enables multiple banks as well as merchants to be available on a common platform, thereby allowing a bank’s customer to make payments across the merchant population.
A customer can store upto 16 credit cards on a single application.
All transactions are authorized by a PIN and encrypted ‘end-to-end’ providing maximum security.
PROJECT 9
Project Name      : atom Capture
Duration           :   11 June 2007 to 28 Feb 2008
Team Size            : 4
Technologies & Tool  : Core Java,J2ME(MIDP 2.0,CLDC 1.0),Eclipse 
Responsibilities   : Involved in analysis, design & development,Designing the generalized component for Application.
Developed Module To Recover And Delete The Data From Database(RMS).
Optimization of Code to Supports large number of Devices.
Project Summary : Atom capture application is developed to keep the track of all the leads generated by a field executive.
The Application provides the ability to the sales team to access and manage critical sale/lead information on their mobile phones.
It enables cost reduction and collaboration by providing automation to the field force.
The solution comprises of mobile server application and the client application.
The client application works on any of the Java based mobile phones which are easily available, low cost and are widely-spread in the market.
The software application allows the agent to perform the activities such as Lead Generation, Receiving Lead Follow-ups, Following up with the lead, closing of leads.
PROJECT 10
Project Name      : atomlite Services
Duration           :  Aug 2009 to Jan 2010
Team Size            : 3
Technologies & Tool : Core Java,J2EE, Eclipse, JBoss 4.2.3GA
Responsibilities   : Involved in analysis, design & development, Integration Testing.Involved in business logic and server side participation as well.Providing updates on weekly basis call with clients.
Project Summary: Atomlite services enables the atomlite mobile application to add merchants for conducting mobile based financial and non-financial transactions.It provides a Robust and secured Transaction Platform that enables mobile based financial and non-financial transactions.
The transaction platform also enables loyalty management to retain the loyal customers.atomlite
services is used to make payments across merchant categories.
Spiel Studios (10 November 06 – 20 April 07) 

Development and Porting of Following Games[20 Nov,2006 to 16 Apr,2007]:

· 10 Pin Bowling
· Alert India

 DEVICE SUPPORTED: Nokia, Motorola, Sony Ericsson, Samsung.
[MIDP 1.0,-2.0,
CLDC 1.0-1.1)
Technologies & Tool: Core Java, J2ME, Wireless Tool Kit

Chakra Interactive Pvt Ltd (24 July 06 – 9 November 06) 

· Development and Porting of Following Games[27 July,2006 to 9 Nov,2006]:

· Brick Breaks
· Shoot n Sight

DEVICE SUPPORTED:  Nokia, Motorola, Sony Ericsson, Samsung.
[MIDP 1.0,-2.0,CLDC
1.0-1.1)
Porting Projects:

Title	             	 :     Bob Marley, Lex Luthor
Technologies & Tool:     J2ME & TIRA JUMP TOOL
Device Ported       	: Motorola (L6 & V600),Sony Ericsson (s700i,z520i),
Samsung A700, Nokia 6630,LG U8138,Sony Ericsson(k700i,s700i)

Personal Profile:

Date of Birth     :  2-10-1981
Passport No      :  J2878562
Father Name    :   Prem chand singh
Gender            :   Male
Marital Status   :   Single
Languages       :   English,Hindi

I declare that the information furnished above is correct and true to the best of my knowledge.
Abhishek kumar           


1


Amrita shukla                                                                      

Ph: 9482572261; 

Email: amrita.shukla02@gmail.com
Summary


· Having 3.5 years of overall IT experience in application development and maintenance activities like analysis, coding,  unit testing, bug fixing, review and release process 

· Having experience on J2EE(3+ yrs) and Android(6 month).
· Having good knowledge of SDLC.
· Good Knowledge of front end(HTML, JavaScript, EXTJS, JQuery) as well as  back end(Java, Oracle, webservices, MQ communication, Drools, Seam Architecture) technologies.
· Knowledge of Advanced Estimation Techniques


Technical KNOWLEDGE


Languages

: 
JAVA, 

Scripting Languages
:  
HTML, JavaScript, EXTJS, Jquery

Frameworks

:
Struts, Hibernate, Seam Architecture

Middleware

:
Web Services, MQ Communication

Tools


: 
 VSS, TOAD, Eclipse, D2I, Clear Case, Clear Quest, iProman, CVS, Pivotal 



Tracker 

Database

: 
Oracle 9i

Server


: 
 Apache Tomcat, Weblogic, Sun 


EDUCATIONAL Details


Bachelor of Engineering (Electronics & Instrumentation), 2008, 71.4%


IET DAVV, Indore (MP)


Class XII, 2003, 68.4%


Aditya Birla Public School, Nagda (MP)


Class X, 2001, 76%


Fatima Convent School, Nagda (MP)



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE


COLLABERA SOLUTIONS PVT LTD                                                                                     JUN'11- Till Date

Senior Engineer

· Development of Modules & Maintenance of internal portal of Verizon DDC.
· Involved in SDLC process.
Project 1: Verizon DDC (June’11 - Apr12)

Technology

:
 JAVA, Seam Architecture,Web Services, MQ Communication, JQuery, 




Drools, JPA , HTML5, EXTJS





Tools


:
CVS, iProman, SQL-Workbench, Eclipse

Server


: 
WebLogic

Team Size

: 
4

Client Description

Verizon is a global leader in delivering innovative communications, information and entertainment.
It offer voice, data and video products and services over intelligent wireless, broadband and global IP networks that 

meet customers' growing demand for speed, mobility, security and control.
As a committed corporate citizen, we use our advanced communications services to address important issues confronting our society.
Project Description
:
Verizon DDC (Digital Distribution Clearinghouse) consists of mainly three modules On Boarding, Order Management and Work Flow.
On Boarding and Order Management  are Customer portals while WorkFlow is portal for internal Verizon User.
It is meant for managing and controlling tasks included to complete the orders.
Responsibilities
: 


· Understanding the requirements.
· Raising clarifications.
· Development of module as per requirement.
· Code Review

· Performing Integration testing on test Environment.
· Reviewing test cases.
· Participating in calls with client.
Major requests

: 

· Creating Attribute Management Screen:  end to end development 

· Creating QC Reports Screen : end to end development

· Migration of Screens from EXTJS 3.4 to EXTJS 4

· Migration of Screens from  EXTJS 3.4 to JQuery and HTML5 

Project 2: Move-Realtor.com
(Since Apr'12)

Technology

:
Android, Java

Tools


:
Android SDK, Pivotal tracker

Team Size

: 
5

Client Description

Move is a real estate web site, which operates the Move Network of real estate web site for consumers and real estate professionals.
Project Description
:
Realtor .com is the mobile application which displays home listings from nearly 900 Multiple Listing Services (MLS) across the US.
It provides.
This application allows user to search the home on different criteria as per their requirement.
User can also view the listings on Map.
Responsibilities
: 


· Understanding the requirements.
· Estimation(Use case estimation)

· Development

· Bug Fixing

· Peer Review

Major requests

: 

· Agent Connect Feature 

ATOS ORIGIN INDIA PVT LTD                                                                                     OCT’ 08- JAN’11

Software Engineer

· Efficiently executing assignments like HP maintenance, development & maintenance of Beinggirl.com,
Always.com,
Tampax.com, and Uniquelygirl.com
for P&G.
· Spearheading activities in the area of Coding and Unit testing.
· Utilizing efforts in application area with Web-based solution, Knowledge Management, Helpdesk.
· Executing tasks by implementation of enhancements and fixing of defect, configuration management and deployment.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Project 3: Vodacom (Since September’10)

Technology

:
 JAVA, EJB, Portlets, Web Services

Server


: 
WebLogic

Team Size

: 
9

Client Description:

Vodacom is a pan-African mobile telecommunications company, and was the first cellular network in South Africa.
It provides GSM service to more than 35 million customers in South Africa, Tanzania, Lesotho, Mozambique and the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Project Description
:
Customer Care Portal for Vodacom is being maintained and enhanced.
Responsibilities
: 


· Understanding the requirements.
· Raising clarifications.
· Development of module as per requirement.
Major requests

: 

· EJB Migration :  EJBs are migrated from version 2.0 to 3.0 

Project 4: Global Web Solution Center (FemCare, Since October’ 08)

Technology

:
 JAVA, J2EE platform, Struts, Hibernate

Server


: 
ATG, Tomcat

Team Size

: 
6 in a module and 120as a whole

Client Description

Proctor & Gamble is the 8th largest corporation in the world by market capitalization and 14th largest US Company by profit.
It has its products available in almost every part of the world.
Project Description
:
FemCare comprises of many brands like tampax and always.
Femcare has four sites.
Always and tampax are product specific sites giving details about all the products for girls.
It also provides opportunity to by product online.
The website gives details entire information about all these products.
Uniquelygirl site provides a virtual school program for teenaged girls.
Beinggirl site is basically a promotional site for P&G FemCare products.
It has Girl  Talk functionality for users to interact and share their experiences.
There are newsletters which provide appropriate information to users.
Responsibilities
: 


· Understanding the requirements.
· Raising clarifications.
· Discussing design with Technical Architect.
· Development of module as per requirement.
· Performing Integration testing on test server as well as production server.
· Reviewing test cases.
· Reproducing issues.
· Identifying root cause.
· Providing appropriate solutions.
· Creating release documents.
· Participating in calls with client.
Major requests

: 

· Bazar Voice Implementation on Always.com:
Bazar voice provides the user reviews for the particular product.
It gives better understanding for the demand of the product.
· Maine’s law: Under this project all users under age of 13 are restrained to be active member on site if they belong to Maine State of Unites States.
· Search Engine Optimization: Having a good website is not enough; it must rank higher in the search result of Search Sites.
Pampers.com has been optimized to improve ranking in External Search results.
· Performance Optimization: Pampers.com has been optimized for better performance in terms of page loading time.
PERSONAL Details


Name


: 
AMRITA SHUKLA

Father’s Name

: 
VIJAY KRISHNA SHUKLA 

Date of Birth

: 
2nd March, 1986

Languages Known
: 
English, Hindi

PAN Card No.

: 
BWPPS2493N


Declaration: I hereby declare that the above information is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Date: 00-00-2012

Place: Bangalore.
(AMRITA  SHUKLA)



appugouda b. patil

appugouda@gmail.com
ExperienCe: 5 years 

date of birth: 09 december 1982
	Cell Ph. :-   +91-9986099903

	address:

Appugouda  b Patil ,

C/o  H.M.S. Rao,

#300/B, out House,

35th ‘c’ cross, 9th main 

jayanagar 4th block bangalore-560011



	PROFESSIONAL SYNOPSIS

· Working as a Team Leader of Android Development Team in Dreams Global Softech Pvt. Ltd.  from last 1 year.
· Team Lead with 5 months of experience in Binary Spectrum, working on Android platform.
· Senior Software Engineer with 4+ years of experience in MindTree Limited, working on leading-edge technologies (Android, Cloud Computing).
· Total  4 years of experience in the field of Android application development and in Wireless and Mobile Practice.
· Actively involved in product concept design, analysis and development for Android Apps.
· Extensively used Design Patterns.
EXPERIENCE

Project: DoAround Android Application

DoAround is a mobile app (Android and iOS) that helps consumer find interesting things around where they are in the categories of Eat, Do and Shop.
DoAround consumers will get to see interesting places/ venues/ events in the pictures, find out the address/ location of the place and add it to their "ToDo" or customized lists.
Consumers can further keep a track and share their local finds with other locals through the app.
Responsibilities:

Involved in analysis, design, coding, and testing of this project.
Worked on UI design, Custom components, networking, event-handling and resource management (images). .
Team Size  :   2  
Role            : Team Lead
Tools           :   Eclipse 3.4, Android SDK Revision 20.0.3 and Platform 2.2 to 4.1
Project :  30 SECOND SOFTWARE, INC 

Digby application by 30SS is a mobile shopping application for Android hand held devices.
User can navigate through product catalogs of different vendors.
There will be customized UI for different vendors.
User can browse through different catalogs and place order for them.
On-demand download mechanism is used for efficiently managing network traffic and memory.
Responsibilities:

Involved in coding, documentation and testing of this project.
Worked on UI design, Custom components, networking, event-handling and data base of device.
To develop all the dynamic list screens that would be generated by accessing the catalog data (In terms of XML) by communicating with the server and parsing the xml on the client side.
Team Size  :   3  
Role            : Sr. Android Developer
Tools           :   Eclipse 3.4, Android SDK 1.5 to 2.2
 SHAPE  \* MERGEFORMAT 



Project: UIDAI microATM
              MicroATM can be used by variety of service providers ranging from government, public sector and private sector.
However the most critical and foremost use of this will be to facilitate Financial Inclusion.
Hence at this point the MicroATMs are being designed to facilitate financial transactions where the banks do not have physical presence.
This application is implemented on Android platform for zoom2 device which contains external Thermal Printer and Fingerprint Sensor.
Objective of this project is to integrate Fingerprint Sensor and Thermal printer with the Android application and authenticate the same with the UID server.In this application, an agent will authenticate 
with the UID server by giving the UID and fingerprint using the Fingerprint Sensor.
Later agent can register any of his/her customers to different services like Banking, Telecom, Insurance, etc.
Responsibilities:

To develop client side application.
Integrating Application with Thermal Printer and Fingerprint Sensor.
Authentication of UID and Fingerprint Data with server.
Team Size  :   3  
Role            :  Sr. Android Developer
Tools          :  Eclipse 3.4 , Android SDK 2.1
 SHAPE  \* MERGEFORMAT 



Project: Mobile Sales Force Automation 

This project included client side mobile application (Blackberry application) and server side admin related functionalities.
This client application was used by Godfrey Philips India Ltd.
Company’s Sales executives to capture the daily sales, stock and survey details and synchronize with the Server side application to store and retrieve information.
Responsibilities:

As a developer I was part of server side development team.
I was actively involved in designing, server side programming and testing.
Team Size                           5  
Technologies                     Struts Framework, JSP, J2EE
 Database                          Oracle 10g    

Web App Server               Web Logic 8.0 server

Tools                               Eclipse 3.4
 SHAPE  \* MERGEFORMAT 



Project: WAP Site development
Developing a mobile web application for one of our client.
The project involved client side UI design, implementation and providing device detection capabilities to support more than top 100 lead devices, using Mind Tree’s  Framework and calling the Web Services provided by the client as Mobile Web Services APIs through Servlets.
Responsibilities:

 As a developer, I was involved in designing UI pages and server side programming.
Technologies                      Servlets, JSP, J2EE, MiWAP framework,
Database                             MYSQL 5.0    

Web Application Server   Tomcat 6.0
Tools                                   Eclipse 3.4 
RESEARCH PROJECTS (MindTree Research Labs.) 

 SHAPE  \* MERGEFORMAT 



Cloud Computing 

             Objective of Cloud Computing research was to explore the components of Cloud, which are Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS) to enhance the growth of MindTree towards Cloud Computing area.
I Explored Amazon.com and Salesforce.com for IaaS and PaaS.
I was basically did extensive research on Amazon EC2, by creating several Virtual machines (Amazon Machine Images, AMIs) and deploying of application on Amazon EC2 instance.
Also familiar with most of the other Amazon Cloud Services like Amazon S3,Amazon RDS, Amazon Simple DB. 

· Proof of Concepts (POC) developed from the Cloud Computing Research:

· Idea Management Application deployed on Amazon EC2 Cloud.
· Monitoring Dashboard Application to monitor Neuron Application.
Cloud Platforms                 Amazon.com
Technologies                       Servlets, JSP, J2EE, EXT JS

Database                             MYSQL 5.0    

Web Application Server   Tomcat 6.0

Tools                                 Eclipse 3.2 & 3.4, Star UML

 SHAPE  \* MERGEFORMAT 



Google Android 

              Objective of the Google Android Research was to explore its Application Framework, Dalvik virtual machine, Optimized graphics, SQLite, Media support, Rich development environment, to enhance the growth of MindTree towards Mobile Platform.
POC’s developed from the Google Android Research

1. Airline Application for frequent flyer to showcase enable check-in, Get 2D barcode boarding pass, Select Seat from Seat Map, Select Special services like Meal Request etc. and Get the latest flight schedule from the Mobile.
2. Museum Application to showcase Barcode Decoding and Audio Streaming for Android 
3. Banking Application to showcase Google Map (Search the Nearest ATM’s from the current location), Get Notification via SMS once the Transaction done.
Get the Key via SMS to transfer amount from one account to another account.
Team Size                                 4      

Mobile Operating System   Google Android
SDK                                            Android SDK, Platform 1.5, 2.1               

Database                                 SQLite    

Tools                                       Eclipse IDE 3.4, Tomcat 5.0
EDUCATION SHAPE  \* MERGEFORMAT 



Course

Institution/College

Board/University

Year

Percentage

M.C.A.

B.M.S. College of Engineering.
Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belgaum

2007

74.05 %

B.C.A.

Karnatak College, Dharwad

Karnatak University,  Dharwad
2004

78.09%

Achievements
Won the Best Techwork Award for the Techwork project “Outlook Meeting Manager” in MindTree for the Year 2008-2009.
Certifications
Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP) 5.0 /Java 2 Platform
 March, 2009

Languages Known
English (Full professional proficiency)
Kannada (Full professional proficiency)
Hindi (Full professional proficiency)
Declaration: The above information is correct to the best of my knowledge
	Technical Skills

· Android

· Core Java
· JSP

· JavaScript

· EXT JS

· Servlets

· XML

· JSON

Domain Skills

· Wireless application development

· E Commerce based applications

· Web Application development

· Cloud Computing (Worked on Amazon EC2)

Tools Used

· Eclipse IDE
· Sub Version

· Rational Rose

· StarUML

· MYSQL 5.0

Languages Known

· English

· Hindi

· Kannada

Hobbies
· Reading

· Painting

· Cricket






Gopi Karmakar





Hno.
09 - Vidhyarthi Market 









Govind Nagar, Kanpur - 208006







Contact No : +91-7406015038








E-Mail : gopi.karmakar@gmail.com
Career Title :

Software Engineer with 4.5 years of experience in Core Java, Java Android Platform, Android Webkit, Java 2 ME, Javascript/Jquery and Basic Servlet/JSP.
.
Professional Experience / Achievements :

Mar,12 till Present, TATA Elxsi Pvt.
Ltd, Bangalore.
Software Engineer.
Worked up on SONY’s highly important R&D project Sony CSXBrowser-Digital Life OS(DLOS).
It’s a Web OS Over Android Webkit(Webview) for the Sony handsets and tablets over Android platform.
First version of DLOS will release in the year,2013.
Oct,10 to Feb,12, Magna InfoTech Pvt. Ltd.
Working To Local Onsite, Electronic Arts Games(EA Sports), Hyderabad

Software Porting Engineer.
Responsible to develop game specific modules and port games on mobile by using Java ME, Android and C/C++ technology and also worked upon organization specific tools and API’s, Like: Flight
Sep, 09 till Nov, 10, F- Technologies Inc.(www.Handygo.com),
New Delhi.
Software Engineer.
Responsible to develop and port mobile games on J2ME technology.
Aug, 08 till Aug, 09, Wirkle Technologies Inc., Gurgaon(Hry).
Trainee cum Software Engineer.
Responsible for develop and port mobile applications on Java and J2ME technology, Developed low level J2ME framework/API on canvas for enhance the GUI of mobile applications, Developed JSP and Servlets for throw response on mobile devices as per the request, Developed scripts for load testing on Java.
NOTE : Being appreciated by EA Sports(India Studio) for design and develop a creative Idea/concept and proof of concept for that technically/programmatically as well as in CRM point of view, which is, A CONNECTED MULTI PLAYER MOBILE GAME WHICH CAN BE PLAYED B/W TWO PLAYERS VIA SMS’s FROM ANYWHERE, BY WITHOUT USING ANY SERVER.
Developed on Java 2 ME(J2ME) and Android Platform/technology over Eclipse IDE, For Java and Android Devices.
Got first prize in technical quiz contest held at Aptech Computer Study Center.
Projects With Companies :

Company Name 
TATA Elxsi Pvt.
Ltd, Bangalore.
Project Name     
CSX Browser-Digital Life Web OS.
Client
Sony India(SISCPL-Sard) Local Onsite, Bangalore.
Team Size          
12 members.
Technology 
Core Java, Java Android Platform, Android Webkit, Javascript/Jquery, HTML5, CSS3 and Some C/C++, etc.

Tools/IDE
Eclipse, Aptana, Android ADT, SVN, GITHUB, Jquery plugins, HTML5, CSS3, UML Tools(Astah), etc.
Description
This project is a Browser cum WebOS (DLOS) over Android Platform with all core Browser’s and OS functionalities like: 
Go, Stop, Refresh, Open/Close Tab, Saving/Editing/Deleting Bookmarks, Storing Cache, and Restoring Last Session, Cloud Server Connectivity,
User Login Support, Restore User’s Last Login, Remote Device Connectivity, User Context Awareness to Same or Remote Device on Login, Location Based User Context Awareness on Same or Remote Device, Dialing, Android Device Camera, Calendar, Calculator, etc. Access from HTML5 and So On…
Role                   
Responsible to develop an Interface/API and Model/Design on Java Android and Core Java for Data Transmission/communication between, Android OS Feature/Java Backend Modules and HTML5/JS/CSS3 View Through Android JavaScript Interface(JSI) over Android Webkit(Webview), for The project CSXBrowser-DLOS.
Attended and completed four days certified company training at SONY on HTML3, JS/Jquery, CSS3.
Company Name 
Magna InfoTech Pvt.
Ltd, Hyderabad.
Team Name     
Future Technology.
Client
Electronic Arts Games (EA Sports) Pvt.
Ltd, Hyderabad.
Team Size          
40 members.
Technology 
Core Java, Java 2 ME(J2ME), Java Android Platform and C/C++, etc.
Tools/IDE
Flight, EAMT, Airplay, Textpad, and Eclipse.
Description
To develop and port carrier/client specific demo wap, demo unlock and Try N Buy modules in several games like Need for Speed(NFS), Bejweled, Tetris, Worms, Fifa, Sims and so on for several technologies and cross platforms like Java ME, Android.
Used several organization specific tools like Flight, EAMT and Airplay to develop and port same code base for different platforms and technologies.
Role                   
To develop modules and port the games for several technologies and platforms.
Company Name 
F- Technologies(Handygo.com) Pvt Ltd, New Delhi.
Project Name     
VALENTINE HEARTS(The Mobile Game).
Team Size          
2 members.
Technologies 
Java, Java2ME(J2ME)
Tools/IDE
Net Beans.
Description        
It was a mobile game with 3 Levels.
In this game user have to collect all the three Shapes of top to down randomly drop hearts(Big, Small & Medium) between hearts, enemies & hidden enemies in the bucket.
Every shape has different points and every level has different speed of dropping of hearts.
User have to catch 75% of total dropped hearts to win the game.
It was developed on core Java and J2ME Canvas.
Role                   
To develop and Port the whole Game for CLDC 1.0 & 1.1 and  MIDP1.0 & 2.0 Devices and for all screen sizes.
Company Name 
F- Technologies Pvt Ltd, New Delhi.
Project Name     
DOSTANA(The Mobile Game and Calendar).
Team Size          
8 members.
Technologies 
Java, Java2ME(J2ME).
Tools/IDE
Net Beans.
Description        
We’ve the movie rights of this movie.
It was a map based mobile game with only 1 Level.
In this one user and one CPU player start searching for a girl in between the way there are some power points and some enemies will come who first search the girl he'll be the winner of the game.
There was a full year mobile Calendar also with the background of Dostana movie wallpaper, wallpaper slideshow and sound.
Through the calendar you can also watch the preview & download wallpaper of Dostana Movie stars on your mobile from server.
It was developed on Core java and J2ME Game Canvas.
Role                   
To Port the whole Game and Develop Calendar for CLDC 1.0 & 1.1 and  MIDP1.0 & 2.0 Devices and for all screen sizes.
Company Name 
Wirkle Technologies Inc., Gurgaon.
Project Name     
TenM3 Personal Interactive Channels(MiiPIC).
Client                 
TenM3 Personal Interactive Channels Services (www.tenm3.com).
Team Size          
12 members.
Technologies 
Java, Java2ME(J2ME).
Tools/IDE
Eclipse and Wirkle Framework.
Description        
Earlier this project was named MiiPIC.
It was a live security system project developed for both WEB and for Mobile.
This provides facility to monitoring places over IP cameras on both over internet as well as on mobile.
It was completely developed on Core Java and J2ME Canvas.
Role                   
To develop the whole UI for mobile application after completion of mobile part shifted to web part and developed some JSP pages for displaying the response on web, develop client side validation on JavaScript and also developed some Servlets for throw response on mobile as per the request and Synchronizing the modules using CVS.
Company Name 
Wirkle Technologies Inc., Gurgaon.
Project Name     
Wirkle Mobile API/Framework(www.wirkle.com).
Team Size          
8 members.
Technologies 
Java, Java2ME(J2ME).
Tools/IDE
Eclipse.
Description        
It was a low level API/framework for enhance the GUI of mobile applications, developed on J2ME Canvas.
This framework will provide simple, better and enhanced solutions for GUI, RMS and Networking issues on mobile.
It was fully developed on Core Java and J2ME Canvas.
Role                   
To develop components for API on canvas like TextArea, TextField, Alert, Table Component, Image List, Button, Image Icon, Checkbox and Radio Button and Synchronizing the modules using CVS.
Qualification :

Qualified H.Sc From U.P Board, Allahabad University in the year 2001.
Qualified S.Sc From U.P Board, Allahabad University in the year 2003.
Qualified Bachelors of Science in Applied Information Technology(BscAIT) Correspondent Degree in the year 2008 with First Division from Sikkim Manipal University By  Aptech Computer Study Center.
Qualified Aptech Development Software Engineer(ADSE) Three Year Diploma Course in the year 2008 with A Grade By Aptech Computer Study Center.
Qualified ‘O’ Level Computer Govt.
Diploma From DOEACC Society By Aptech Computer Study Center.
Personal Details :

Date Of Birth

:
16-06-1987

Father’s Name 

:
Mr. Gaurang Karmakar

Mother’s Name 

:
Mrs. Madhabi Karmakar

Res.
Address

:
9 - Vidhyarthi Market, Govind Nagar, Kanpur(U.P)

Pin Code

:
208006

Nationality

:
Indian

Languages Known
:
Hindi, English, Bengali.
Contact No.

: 
+91-7406015038
Passport No.

:
K5332523.
E-Mail


: 
gopi.karmakar@gmail.com,
karmakar_gopi@yahoo.in
Hobbies :

Net Surfing, Playing video/computer games, Gather information about latest gadgets, Watching TV and Movies, Listening to music.
Date  :


Place :


(GOPI KARMAKAR)

Jagannathan K
                        	               Mobile:  +91-9886491435
						               Mobile:  +91-9790912366
         		               Email:jagan3@gmail.com
Objective
Seeking a mid level position with a dynamic work environment where my skills and experience would help to achieve goals and objectives of the organization.
Designation
Senior Software Engineer with Motorola Mobility on Mobile Device Applications for 4.6 years
Project Engineer with Wipro Technologies for 3 years.
Education
Bachelors of Engineering (B.E) specialized in Electrical and Electronics from Madras University secured 81% “First Class with Distinction” in April 2004

Higher Secondary from New Prince, Chennai secured 89.41% in March 2000

Matriculation from New Prince, Chennai secured 79.27% in March 1998.
Professional Summary
Total experience of 7+ years on designing and developing software.
Owned and delivered projects involving
Android, Java, C, C++, DSP, Multimedia, Browser, stack, fetch agent, audio codecs, VC++, MFC, MSI technologies.
Has good domain knowledge on
- Mobile Device Applications
1. Multimedia applications – Android
2. User help application - Android
3. Browser applications – C & C++

- Home Theaters – Texas Instruments Audio codec  
Audio decoders – C & C++

-  Printers - HP LaserJet
	Drivers and installation packages development – C++, VC++ & MFC



Proficient in designing applications using appropriate Design Patterns.
Proficient in designing data types using appropriate Data Structures.
Proficient in developing applications for embedded environments balancing memory and time constraints.
Proficient in developing Android applications using Android SDK and tools.
Proficient in using DDMS and other SDK tools.
Proficient with adb commands.
Proficient in debugging and fixing out of memory - OOM issues.
Proficient in debugging and fixing ANR issues.
Proficient in developing android 3D applications.
Proficient in developing android 3G multimedia applications.
Proficient in developing animation for android Smartphone.
Proficient in developing audio decoder using audio sdk.
Proficient knowledge in Linux, Eclipse, GIT.
Proficient knowledge on real time debuggers like Trace 32 Lauterbach, Openice.
Proficient in resolving memory leakage issues - panic analysis.
Proficient knowledge in client server programming

Good in decision analysis and resolution, requirements gathering.
Proficient in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle with emphasis in implementation, maintenance, testing

Proficient knowledge on agile scrum process

Proficient in OOAD, UML.
Proficient in UI design, JSON, XML

Proficient in SQLite.
Skills Summary

Langages : OOP languages - C++, Java, VC++ & C

Concepts : Networking, HTTP, WAP, Installer (MSI), DSP.
IDEs : Eclipse, Microsoft Visual C++, CCS,VI.
SDKs : Android SDK, Microsoft Platform SDK, Audio codec SDK.
Database Tools: SQLlite, SQLplus, Oracle SQL Developer

Configuration Management Tools: Git, SVN, Rational ClearCase, Rational ClearQuest, Configuration Version System (CVS).
Operating Systems: Android, Linux, P2k, Windows, UNIX, Nucleus, Rex, VRTXMc, DSP BIOS

Processors: ARM9, ARM11, TI/Neptune OMAP1030

Chipsets: TI, Qualcomm

Networking Protocols: HTTP, WAP and SSL.
E-Com Frameworks/Web Technologies : VBScripts, HTML, XML

Debuggers: DDMS, Trace 32 LauterBach, Openice

Other Tools: adb, Source Insight 6.0, Ethereal, Wireshark, RSD Lite, RTA, RadioComm, Multimedia workbench, CSST, CVS, Install shield, Microsoft Visio













Projects in Motorola

1. Android – Multimedia Music application

· Role 		- Lead developer
· Languages	- Java.
· IDE               - Linux , Eclipse
· Platform         - Android
· Tools	          - DDMS, git, RSD Lite.
The project is about developing music applications for android smart phones.
Developing activities, services using artist, album, track information
Developing applications related to news, events and recommendations and other happenings.
Responsibilities:
Complete ownership of the application and providing timely updates to the managers.
· Understand requirements and gathering inputs.
· Feature estimation.
· Design.
· Develop Activities, services.
· Develop intents, broadcasts.
· Develop databases.
· Develop animations for different players
· Analyzing and fixing ANR
· Analyzing and fixing OOM
· Analyze tombstones.
· Issue triaging and assigning to team engineers.
· Debugging.
· Unit testing.
· Code integration.
· Code maintenance.
· Organizing calls with other teams.
· Initiating test related activities to get high stabilized application.
· Recruiting new talents.
· Mentoring.
2. Android – Help app

The project is about developing application for first time smart phone users.
Application explains user “how to use smart phone and its various applications”.
Responsibilities:
· Understand requirements and gathering inputs.
· Feature estimation.
· Design.
· Develop Activities, services.
· Develop intents, broadcasts.
· Develop databases.
· Develop animations for different players
· Analyzing and fixing ANR
· Analyzing and fixing OOM
· Analyze tombstones.
· Issue triaging.
· Debugging.
· Unit testing.
· Code integration.
· Code maintenance.
· Organizing calls with other teams
· Recruiting new talents.
· Mentoring.
3. Browser

· Role 		- Developer
· Languages	- C++, C.
· IDE               - Visual studio 2008, Source insight
· OS                - UNIX, Linux.
· Tools           - Trace 32 LauterBach, Openice Clear case, DDTS, RSD Lite, RTA, RadioComm, Wireshark, Ethereal, Multimedia workbench, CCST.
The project is about developing, maintenance, feature enhancements of mobile browser such as Opera and Motorola internet browser using HTTP and WAP protocol standards.
Developing, enhancement and maintenance of browser stack code.
Responsibilities:
· Understand requirements and gathering inputs.
· Feature estimation.
· Developing and testing.
· Responsible for analyzing issues related to freeze and panic,
· Resolving freeze, panic and other memory related issues by debugging using debuggers like Trace 32 lauterbach, openice.
· Responsible for analyzing and fixing issues related to browser stack code.
· Responsible for analyzing and fixing issues related to fetch agent code.
· Understanding design documents and coding as per specifications.
· New feature enhancement and code maintenance.
· Code inspection, reviewing and commenting.
· Coordinating meetings with Opera and other teams to sort out issues arising due to dependencies.
Projects in Wipro Technologies Ltd (Till march 2008)

1.  Audio Codec, C, C++ Project

· Client 		- Texas Instruments.
· Role 		- Developer
· Languages 	- C, C++.
· IDE               - Visual studio.net,
CCS.
· OS                - Windows, DSP BIOS.
· Tools & tech   - COM, CVS.
The project is about developing decoders for different customers and customizing them as per customer’s requirements.
Developing new audio standards like DTSHD, LBR.
These were developed by using different topologies as per customer’s requirements.
Ensure developed decoder gets certified by DTS and DOLBY.
Responsibilities:

· Involved in Requirement analysis.
· Understanding design documents and coding as per spec.
· Code reviewing, commenting and releasing to customers.
· Debugging and defect fixing.
· Make certification releases.
2. CD Integ, C++, VC++ Project

· Client 		- Hewlett Packard
· Role 		- Developer
· Languages	- C++, VC++.
· IDE               - Visual studio 2005
· OS              - Windows 2000, Windows 3.1/95/98, Windows NT, Windows-XP.
· Tools             - Installshield, Clear case, rational clear quest.
The project is about building and customizing the device installer for LaserJet products, which are built on MSI (Microsoft Installer) technology.
The installer package has printer driver, supporting software and other service components.
The installer provides customized UI for printer installation and handles the complete installation for different printers.
Responsibilities:

· Involved in Requirement analysis.
· Understanding design documents and coding as per specifications.
· New feature enhancement and code maintenance.
· Code reviewing and commenting.
· Debugging and defect fixing.
· Unit testing.
C. Krishna Kumar
Phone: (M) +91 9437920563 E-mail: krishnakumar112069@gmail.com
In the journey of around 4.5 years in IT, I have been primarily associated with Banking and Mobile Development on various Platforms.
I have been responsible for multiple roles which includes Systems Engineer, Senior Systems Engineer.
During this course, I have also identified opportunity for various application migration, and Innovation projects.
I have been working with INFOSYS LIMITED for last 4 years and 6 months and currently I am working as a Senior Systems Engineer.
The following are the roles played by me in my entire IT journey till now.
- Senior Systems Engineer role in JAVA/J2EE/J2ME that includes new development projects as well as Application migration project.
- As a technical consultant in Application server competency area mainly in RED HAT products.
- As a Senior Systems Engineer in performance engineering for various product releases and for application tuning.
- As a Senior Systems Engineer in J2EE/J2ME products and application architecture, developments and deployments.
- As a developer for multi tier architecture for US client in Universal Banking Solution.
- Risk management for platform migration projects in multi tier platforms.
Also I have hands on experience in different phases of project lifecycle and I have successfully managed projects to achieve customer satisfaction.
· Reviewing of application and infrastructure architecture of different applications and involved in providing best practices in the same areas.
· Strong technical skills in JAVA/J2EE/J2ME technologies.
· Strong technical skills on application server area and environment health check.
· Currently working with internal IP cell to file a patent on J2ME technology area.
· Have written whitepapers on various J2EE aspects in technology area.
· I have also been involved in writing patent as a co-inventor in new technology areas.
· Involvement in creation of best practices, Knowledge management, training, code review and technical support.
· Awarded as “Individual Excellence” in INFOSYS-2011 for JBOSS certification and e-Banking Issue analysis as a Systems Engineer.
· Awarded as “SPARK-Extra miler’” in INFOSYS for organizing Spark event at DC level for two consecutive years.
Core Competencies





1

· Technical expertise in JAVA/J2EE/J2ME Technologies .
· J2EE performance engineering and migration.
· Strong analytical skills
· J2EE/J2ME (mobile) Application development.
Professional Experience:
 
· Working as a Senior Systems Engineer in INFOSYS LIMITED since July 2008 till date.
Highlights


INFOSYS LIMITED, BHUBANESWAR

AS a Senior Systems Engineer, my responsibility includes:
· Senior Developer for J2EE, J2ME (Mobile platform), Security, JBoss and RED HAT products.
· Consultation of infrastructure architecture of Finacle products, planning for platform migration projects.
· Issue Analysis for UBS certification on RED HAT FINACLE release.
· Development on J2EE and mobile applications.
· Closely worked with REDHAT Alliance team and SPE LAB team for different activities like bench marking, performance engineering, and Platform and product fitment.
Projects undertaken 
Technology: 

	Operating Systems                                 
	Windows 9x/ NT/ 2000/   Windows, RHEL, Unix.
Languages
	
	Java, J2EE, J2ME,JAVA Design Pattern,PL/SQL, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java RMI, EJB 2.0, JMS, XML Web Services

	Special Software
	Jboss 4.3.0-GA,
Jboss-eap-4.3.0/5.0/5.1/5.1.2,
Jboss-EWS 1.0.1,
Apache 2.2.11, 2.2.15, mod_jk 1.2.28,mod_cluster
Eclipse 3.0, 3.1, OC4J, Tomcat, BEA TOAD, CLDC JAVA (TM) Platform Micro Edition SDK 3.0, CLDC 1.1 MIDP 2.0,Andriod2.1,
Bouncy castle API, Red Hat Enterprise Web server 1.0.1 and 1.0.2,Jboss
Operation Network 3.1

	Databases
	Oracle 9i, Oracle 10,11gr2 RAC,  MySql


	Exposure and Knowledge
	JAVA Design pattern













Projects Undertaken: 
	Project
	Finacle Digital Commerce.
Period
	August 2011 till date

	Description
	FDC can be viewed as a backend J2EE system, which will be accessed predominantly via Mobile Phones through different channels like SMS, USSD, and HTTP etc.
Though FDC can self exists as a back end system, it is designed in such a way that it can be made to interface with other backend host system like core banking solutions and enterprise solutions such as CRM , GL system, Biller System, Payment Gateway etc. FDC is an offering that currently provides a mobile wallet solution.
Finacle digital commerce solution empowers Banks, Telecom industry and retail industry to offer a simple, secure and cost-effective technology led solution to multiple customer segments for secure payments and other financial services.
The solution also enables banks to leverage cost-effective ubiquitous technologies such as mobile and other devices such as POS terminals, ATMs etc. to extend commerce and banking services to the hitherto under-banked.
It can be interfaced with different channels like web service, ISO8583, HTTP to process the request.
Environment
	JAVA, J2EE, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JBoss-5.1.0,
RHEL 5.2, MySql, Oracle 10g, Mobile commerce platform.
Tools
	eclipse-helios, Star UML, Jboss Developer Studio




	Project
	MobileToken – An OTP mobile security framework.
Integration with Mobile Banking.
Period
	Feb 2011 till date

	Description
	Mobitoken is a security framework to generate One time password an enterprise transaction in B2B and Mobile commerce.
This is a utility can be used in a Thick client/Thin client of a mobile device, web client and at the enterprise server end to check the generated OTP at both client and server end.
This is a 2Factor Authentication mechanism that provides an extra layer of security to validate the identity of a customer for sensitive transaction over the wire.
This uses HOTP algorithm to generate an OTP license and that will be stored at client end on request.
Environment
	JAVA, J2EE, J2ME, CLDC JAVA (TM) Platform Micro Edition SDK 3.0CLDC 1.1 MIDP 2.0, SHA2, Bouncy castle API, Android 2.1, android-sdk-2.1.
BlackBerry Java Plug-in  for Eclipse 1.3.0,
BB smart phone Emulators 4.5.0 and 6.0.0

	Tools
	eclipse-helios, ADT-0.9.7, eclipse-Europa, Jboss 4.3.0,
Star UML.
Project
	ePurse  (Near Field Secure Electronic Token Transaction for Cash Commerce )

	Period
	September 2010 to May 2011

	Description
	ePurse will be representing an electronic wallet in a mobile device.
It is a virtual purse which can be easily carried in any individual’s mobile and it will be used as cash when shopping or transacting for commercial and social activities.
It allows for money exchange using the mobile joystick and keypad.
It has the concept of electronic Note (eNote) provided by the Bank or any other central issuing authority.
The user can transact with another mobile device having ePurse.
A transaction can mean transferring eNote or receiving eNote.
The receiver mobile can accept the eNote into its wallet.
The banker service will be responsible to recharge the device.
The application will be dealing with floating eNote pool to recharge the mobile device.
The application can be used as an add-on service to eBanking, travel or insurance application.
Currently the application has been developed in J2ME platform.
Environment
	JAVA, J2ME, CLDC JAVA (TM) Platform Micro Edition SDK 3.0, CLDC 1.1 MIDP 2.0, SHA2, PKCS5, Bouncycastle API,  Android 2.1, android-sdk-2.1,
BlackBerry Java Plug-in  for Eclipse 1.3.0,
BB smart phone Emulators 4.5.0 and 6.0.0

	Tools
	NetBean 3.0, eclipse-helios, ADT-0.9.7, MiniMe 1.1,Star UML

	Achievements
	The above mentioned idea has already been submitted at Intellectual Property Cell IP no: IN-FIN-1482




	Project
	Finacle Universal Banking Solution Certification on JBOSS-EAP and RHEL platform in a High Availability Environment

	Period
	January 2009 to September 2010.
Description
	This is a program to certify Universal Banking Solution on Jboss application server a requirement from one of the premier bank from US.
This includes developing a large project that includes migration of 10 J2EE applications from IBM platform to Jboss on Linux platform with new enhancements.
The entire program started with technical analysis, feasibility study, , Hardware procurement Issue fixing, Various technical areas in Jboss app server
Shared library approach
Password encryption , Multiple profile creation, JAAS related changes, Cluster specific changes, Class loading changes, Scope deployment, Code changes to jboss failover, Code changes for JNDI, Web service specific changes.
Environment
	JBoss-eap-4.3.0, 5.1, Apache HTTP server 2.2.15,
Mod_jk 1.2.28,.
Open_SSL 0.9.8k,
Red hat Enterprise Linux 5.2, Oracle 10g, and Finacle deployment manager.
Tools
	RHEL 5.2, Jboss developer studio 2.0, VSS






	Project
	INSULATE – Memory management framework

	Period
	Jan 2010 to April 2010

	Description
	Products from Finacle which have extensive use of large data structure often get complaints from client of insufficient memory for their application server.
Insulate framework, a path breaking one of its kind gives application stability in case of Out of Memory Scenario without Server outage and also gives flexibility to application developer to monitor and manage large memory without compromising with the functionality, architecture, infrastructure requirement and above all performance of the applications.
Environment
	JAVA 2.0

	Tools
	eclipse-Europa, Jboss 4.3.0,
Enterprise Architect 8.0



	Project
	Finacle e-Banking License Module


	Period
	Jan 2009 to August 2009

	Description
	Finacle e-Banking License module has been designed to perform license checks for various functionalities in e-Banking.
Through this License module, the following License checks have been performed:
1. Expiry Date
2. Modules per channel
3. Channels


	Tools
	eclipse-Europa, Jboss 4.3.0
Project
	10,000 User/110 TPS certification of FINACLE LITE (Cloud Application)

	Period
	Mar 2012 to May 2012

	Description
	FINACLE LITE is a cloud based application comprising of few components of Universal Banking Solutions of Finacle.
I had worked with Performance Engineering team for certifying the product with 10,000 users/110 TPS on Jboss Enterprise Webserver 1.0.1 as Webserver (Apache 2.0, RHEL 5.6)/Jboss Enterprise Application Platform 5.1.0
as Application Server and mod_jk as the software load balancer.
My role is for performance tuning of J2EE application and Jboss EWS/Jboss EAP.
Environment
	RHEL 5.6 , 64 bit

	Tools
	Jboss EWS 1.0.1,
Jboss EAP 5.1.0,Mod_jk,Oracle
11gr2









	
	Project
	30,000 User/150 TPS certification of Finacle Digital Commerce

	Period
	June 2012 to November 2012

	Description
	I had worked with Performance Engineering team for certifying the product with 30,000 users/150 TPS on Jboss Enterprise Webserver 1.0.1 as Webserver (Apache 2.0, RHEL 5.6)/Jboss Enterprise Application Platform 5.1.0
as Application Server and mod_jk as the software load balancer.
I had worked on configuring the environment with 8 Jboss Clusters, 4 EWS Servers and each Cluster contains 2 nodes of Jboss instances.
This task also helped me on gaining expertise on monitoring all the system/server resources with Jboss Operation Network (3.1) and also in Patch deployments on all the instances of Jboss EAP as well as Jboss EWS.
Environment
	RHEL 5.6 , 64 bit 

	Tools
	Jboss EWS 1.0.1,
Jboss EAP 5.1.0,Mod_jk,Oracle
11gr2 RAC






	Trainings
	Program or Course
	Place
	Month/year

	Enterprise Java Beans
	Infosys
	Jan 2009

	JBOSS application server administration
	Infosys
	April 2009/November 2009

	Clustering On Jboss
	Infosys
	April 2009/November 2009

	J2ME and Android
	INFOSYS
	March 2011






Educational Qualifications
· Passed BTech.
(Electrical Engineering) with 73.4% from Biju Patnaik University of Technology, Orissa in 2008.
· Passed 10+2 with 69.4% from C.B.SE, Orissa in 2004.
· Passes 10th with 77.8% from C.B.SE, Orissa in 2002.
Personal Details
	Date of birth:				19th July 1986
	Languages Known:			English, Hindi, Oriya and Telegu
	Marital Status				Married	
	Address:				SB 36,Kanan Vihar Phase-2,Patia,Bhubaneswar-751031


Declaration:

I hereby declare that the above-furnished information is correct and I am responsible for its accuracy.
Place: Bengaluru                                           				(C.Krishna Kumar)
Date:                  

VSN Murthy

Mobile: (91) 7676178378

Mail: murthy.mca53@gmail.com
Overview

· 2+ years of overall experience in developing Android Applications and Web based Applications.
· Strong in Java, Android and J2EE development.
· Extensively working on Android .
· 1+ years of experience in Android.
· Excellent problem solving, analytical, interpersonal and communication skills.
Ability to work in-groups as well as independently with minimal supervision.
Java Certifications

I have completed Sun Certified Java Professional (SCJP 1.5) certification with 96% score in September 2009.
Technical Skills

· Operating Systems :    Windows 2000/ XP/ 2003 Professional.
· Platforms                :    Android.
· Languages              :    C, C++ Java.
· Web Technologies  :    HTML, JSP, Servlets.
· Web Servers           :    Tomcat apache server 5xs.
· Database                :    MySQL, PostgreSQL.
· Framework             :    Struts 

· IDE                          :    Eclipse , NetBeans 6.7.
Education:

Post Graduation: M.C.A from C.V.S.R. College of Engineering,                                 Affiliated to JNTU (A.P).
Secured 75% aggregate.
Graduation: B.Sc (Maths, Physics, Chemistry) from Govt Degree College, Affiliated to AU (A.P).
Secured 65% aggregate.
Intermediate: Intermediate from Board of Intermediate (A.P).
Secured 79.4% aggregate.
SSC: SSC from State Board of Secondary Education (A.P).
Secured 79% aggregate,  

Work Experience # 1

Working  as ”Software Developer” for Integra Micro Software Services , Bangalore from May 2010 to till date.
Project 1 :                                                                            Jan 2011 – Till date
 

Project Name
: Polaris (Next Gen UI)
Client   

: SAMSUNG
Environment

: Android, XAF, XUP, CodePro tool, FindBug tool, Eclipse.
Currently working on Polaris Project.
Project 2:                                                           August 2010 – December 2010
Project Name : JungUm on Android

Client              : SAMSUNG (SISO)

Environment   : Android, JNI, C ++, Eclipse, PMD tool, KlocWork tool

Description     :

‘Jungum on Android ‘  is a word processor for Android mobile.
This word processor suupports .txt,
.doc,
.docx,
.gul,
.hwp
file formats.
JungUm  supports all features like font’s size, font color, text rendering, zooming, text alignment, bulleting, text color.
Document conversion is also possible from one format to another format.
This Supports English and Korean Languages.
Android UI designed in way that supports  internationalization. User can select   the language at anytime.
Project 3:                                                                         June 2010 - July 2010 
Project Name
: Location Tracker

Environment

: Android, Eclipse 

Description             :
Location Tracker is being developed for getting location based information in mobile and send location updates to centralized server via SMS.
Then based on the SMS location is displayed on Google Maps.
Project 4:                                                                           May 2010 – Jun 2011
Project Name
:  Search Scoring Implementation for Balaji Tele Films.
Client   

: Balaji Tele Films 

Environment

: J2SE, Apache Lucene, Apache Solr, MyEclipse

Description             :
      Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java.
It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.
Search time scoring is the process of calculating the score when searching for the presence of query string in each of the document in the index database.
Dynamic fields of a document shall be processed to determine the search time score.
Work Experience # 2
 Worked as a “Software developer” for Vittal Technologies  from January 2009 May 2010.
Project 5:                                                                   January 2009 – May 2010
Project Name
: CRM Project For MRK Industries.
Client   

: MRK Industries

Environment

: Java, Servlets, Jsp, Ajax, JavaScript, Net beans, PostgreSQL.
Description :
This is a Platform independent Project for maintaining the total process of sales including Requisiton, Quotation, and Purchase Order etc. Major advantage is very user friendly.
It has nice report generation, Generates PDF reports for every transaction.
Responsibilities:

· Developed Application using Java and PostgreSQL.
· Developed presentation layer using Jsp.
· Interacted with the Project manager and the business to understand the business requirements.
Project 6:
                                                   Academic Project
Title

: 
Language Translator On Mobile     (Android)    

Description: 

· Language Translator is a Google Android based project, which is fully functional language translator.
This is a mobile application on which a person can translate on the go.
· This application resolves the problem faced by travelers who come from different nations.
· Using this application we will be able to enter one language and it will be translated to another.
Software: Android SDK Java JDK Kit .
Page 1 of 3


Neeraj Khatana

89/1, Munnireddy Layout,
3rd Cross, Bellandur,

Bangalore - 560103
Mobile +91 9686984581
E-mail
khatana_neeraj@yahoo.co.in
CAREER OBJECTIVE

To build a career in the field of Information Technology with special emphasis on emerging Application Software and Technologies that would provide an opportunity to significantly contribute to organizations and offer professional growth while being resourceful, innovative and flexible.
KEY SKILLS

· Total 8+ years of experience in Java/J2EE

· Strong in Databases Oracle, SQL/Server

· Have good understanding of Financial Derivates, Trading Risk Management concepts and have 1.5+ years of experience in TRM projects.
· Have 1+ year experience on ETRM tool – Openlink Endur

WORK EXPERIENCE

Working with Tech Mahindra, Bangalore as a Senior Technical Associate from May 2011.
Responsibilities include requirements gathering, creating the design documents using UML techniques, developing the modules, writing and executing test cases, helping the team in solving the issues related to the project, communicate with designers team.
Worked with NECHCL System Technologies, Noida as a Module Lead from Sept 2009 to Feb 2011.
Responsibilities include requirements gathering, creating the design documents using UML techniques, developing the modules, writing and executing test cases, helping the team in solving the issues related to the project, communicate with onshore team.
Worked with Fujitsu Consulting India Pvt. Ltd., Noida as a Sr. Systems Executive from Dec 2007 to May 2009.
Responsibilities include developing modules and integrating them with the main project, attending the change request given by client, solving the issues related to the project, creating the design documents using UML techniques, writing and executing test cases, communicate with onshore team.
Worked with TCS, New Delhi as a Business Associate from July 2007 to Oct 2007.
Responsibilities include developing modules and integrating them with the main project and test them through regression test.
Worked with Techbooks International Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi as a Software Engineer from Jan 2006 to July 2007.
Responsibilities include developing modules and integrating them into the main project, maintain the database records and verify the results in programmatic and analytic ways.
Developed web pages, server side programs, desktop applications used in the project.
Worked on projects in Java Technology.
Worked with Kajaria Plus Ltd., New Delhi as a Computer Programmer from Sept 2003 to Dec 2005.
Responsibilities include developing and coding the forms used in the projects.
Developed web pages, server side programs used in the projects.
Worked on projects using JFC (Swing), JSP, Servlets.
PROJECTS

SQE Mobile Xpress


 (Duration – 9 months)


Language
Java, JSP, Struts 2, Spring 2.5, iBatis 2.3, DOJO, JSON, JavaScript


Tools Used
Oracle 10g, Tomcat 6.0, SVN 1.6, Eclipse, JDK 1.6, Agile Scrum


Team Size
16

Description
British Telecom is the leading telecom subscriber in UK.
The purpose of the SQEMX provides product and service offering for the BT Channels including how the product and service can be ordered, delivered, maintained, supported and the customer billed.
It is the single source for all product information and will provide the location and source for more detailed descriptions.
This description is built over time as the product moves through the development and launch phases.
Responsibilities
Involved in end-to-end development of project using Spring framework, Developed presentation layer using Struts 2.0 framework, Involved in Unit testing of Non Standard Configuration screen & involved in integration testing of the project.
E Serve



(Duration – 6 months)


Language
Java, JSP 2.0, Spring 3.0, iBatis 2.3, JavaScript, Maven 3


Tools Used
Oracle 11g, Web Logic 10.3, SVN 1.6, Eclipse, JDK 1.6, Agile Scrum


Team Size
12
Description
eServe is BT’s initiative to replace Legacy systems with new strategic application for Bill Presentment and Payment.
Purpose behind Strategic initiative is to remove limitations of legacy application and deliver a solution that is capable of meeting the online Billing and Payment requirements of UKBS customers.
Initially the legacy application and the strategic application will run in parallel, serving different sets of customers.
Over a period, all users will be migrated to the strategic application.
Responsibilities
Involved in end-to-end development of project using Spring framework, Developed the Advice of payment module and write the test cases for this and different modules.
Android – Travel Application
         (Duration – 12 months)


Language
Android Programming, Core Java



Tools Used
CVS, Ant, Eclipse, Android SDK


Team Size
5

Description
This project was to develop a suite of applications (with rich and user friendly GUI) for Travel domain.
This application was to help the tourist to plan and manage his trip utilizing location-based services wherever applicable.
Responsibilities
Was involved in designing, coding and leading the team to get the module delivered on time.
Developed the build tool in ANT script for generating multiple Android Package (APK) files.
NMS – Network Management System
         (Duration – 5 months)


Language
Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Swings


Tools Used
CVS, JUnit, Checkstyle, FindBugs, Eclipse, LOG4J


Team Size
5

Description
NMS is to monitor & control network system.
Main Window is providing a hierarchal view of network hierarchy.
Once a specified NE is Chassis View provides monitoring & controlling functionality for the specified NE.
Component targeted for development provides monitoring & controlling functionality for C-Node type of NEs.
Responsibilities
Was involved in designing and developing the application and helping the team in Java related technologies.
Was also directly involved in interacting with the client for understanding the requirements.
OGP TRM – Oil, Gas and Power TRM System
         (Duration – 14 months)


Language
Core Java, Oracle


Tools Used
CVS, JIRA, Endur


Team Size
12
Description
This application was used to capture the Oil, Gas and Power trades in system and run endur simulations to get the Greeks and other useful results like MTM, VAR etc.
The results were displayed on intranet application for authorized users.
Responsibilities
Was involved in developing the JSP pages to display the simulation results and writing stored procedures to fetch the results.
Was also involved extensively in testing the application.
Done few tasks in Endur like configuring the trade blotter, adding static data in Admin Manager and writing few Operational scripts
TRMS – Trading Risk Management System


(Duration – 4 months)


Language
Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, SQL Server



Tools Used
Eclipse, CVS, JIRA, Ant, JUnit, LOG4J


Team Size
9
Description
The TRMS is the application build to capture the trades done by the client that helps them store the information on the portfolio basis and calculate some basic results like Pnl, MTM for Power and Gas commodity.
For some of the complex calculation the data was exported to Excel and macros were written to calculate the results.
Responsibilities
Was involved in fixing the defects and testing of the application.
And completing the change requests.
LMS – Leads Management System



(Duration – 6 months)


Environment
Core Java, JSP, Portlets, Struts 1.2, Spring, Hibernate,




SQL Server, Liferay Portal Server, HTML, Javascript



Tools Used
Eclipse, CVS, JIRA, IE, Ant, JUnit



Client
Agency Market Group (AMG)


Team Size
3

Description
The Leads Distribution System delivers leads to Field Leaders and Agents at an accelerated speed.
The purpose of the system is to provide a web-based interface to the agents and field leaders so that they can effectively manage and work on the leads more effectively by offering them products and services of Health Markets.
Distribution of the imported leads occurs either manually or be automated through the creation of rules.
Responsibilities
Accountable for delivering coding as per defined standards and deadlines.
Estimation of tasks within the projects.
Integrating the modules and attending the change request, designed UML diagrams.
Write and execute test cases, Communication with onshore team

CRP – Credit Rethink
Project


(Duration – 4 months)


Environment
Core Java, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, iBatis, HTML, Oracle



Tools Used
Eclipse, VSS, IE, LOG4J


Team Size
25

Description
The Credit Rethink Project is an initiative to streamline and automate credit processes in the Wholesale Bank, which culminates in the delivery of the Credit Rethink portal you are logged into.
The Credit Rethink Project (CRP) involves the re-engineering and automation of the credit approval process within WB Risk and aims to increase the accuracy and efficiency of the current WB credit approval processes.
Responsibilities
Coding for creating and maintaining the scorecard details through which a weightage is given to the user.
PMS – Power Manage System



(Duration – 7 months)


Environment
Core Java, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Multithreading, Oracle



Tools Used
Cute Editor, Eclipse, VSS, IE, Mozilla, Netscape


Team Size
7

Description
The user’s tasks are minimized in this workflow system.
The users are required to download the files and operate on them.
There are many stages for the files to undergo.
The user does not need to take care of.
It is already done by system.
This system checks the performance of the operator.
HR module also provides help in connecting the employees.
Responsibilities
Coding for generating the reports, HR Module, Task Assignment Module, Developing and maintaining the workflow for the tasks and users.
Solves the bugs while implementing live.
Requirements keep on changing while implementing it.
ALS – Automated Layout System



(Duration – 7 months)


Environment
Core Java, JSP, Servlets, HTML, Postgres



Tools Used
Cute Editor, Eclipse, VSS, IE, Mozilla, Netscape



Team Size
7

Description
Movement of files is managed in this workflow system.
There are three levels of users.
The top level of the user is the client and observes the movement of files on the screen by changing the milestone.
As the file moves from one user to other, the milestone updates and appears on the screen of the client.
The other users are doing actually the work on the files.
Responsibilities
Developing and Designing the workflow for the manuscripts that includes downloading and uploading the files from the server.
Involved in testing the flow of the system via default manuscripts.
CMOS – Chicago Manual of Style



(Duration – 6 months)


Environment
Core Java, Swings, Multithreading, HTML



Tools Used
Cute Editor, Netbeans, VSS, IE


Team Size
5

Description
This is a Content Management Application.
It allows the client to view already encrypted html files in a html viewer.
Authors, Publishers and Editors use this Application.
It describes all the points that one should take care from writing to publishing the script or article.
It describes the writing styles, formatting of the text.
Responsibilities
Have contributed to the part of searching the text in the files.
Searching text-highlighted feature is generated.
In addition, provides bookmarking and maintaining the notes for a particular page facility.
List Server – A Mailing System



(Duration – 8 months)


Environment
Core Java, JSP, HTML, Oracle



Team Size
5

Description
List Server Software is a general term for several programs also called “Mail Manager Software”.
These software programs are used to send bulk email to numbers of subscribers, and for the efficient management of the subscribers.
Responsibilities
Have generated the Test Cases and created CSS and Database for it.
Worked in module “Administrator”, in which I have made sub modules using JSP, Java and create HTML pages according to the requirement of project

Customer Relationship Management



(Duration – 9 months)


Environment
Core Java, Swings, JSP, Servlets, SQL Server


Team Size
5

Description
CRM package involves in providing the customers feedback for future references.
The calls made to them can be Inbound or Outbound or customer can directly visit to the showroom where he can have choice of various tiles.
The contact address and remarks are stored in the database.
This project also helps in minimizing the paperwork.
Responsibilities
Generated reports accordingly to check the status of the customer whether his request is in process or has been completed.
The customer is then referred to the other person according to his need.
Billing System on Sale/Purchase



(Duration – 9 months)


Environment
Core Java, JFC/Swing, SQL Server



Team Size
5

Description
This Project deals with generation of reports on Sale and Purchase on a monthly or daily basis as required.
It provides product details of a particular Branch.
While logged in on a particular branch in the project, user cannot enter in more than two branches at the same time but a user can access records of different branches while logged in on a different branch.
Work involves generating forms and Coding according to forms or as required by user.
Responsibilities
Displaying the data in the columns and deriving the results of two or more branches while operating on a third branch through a facility of merging.
SKILLS
RDBMS

Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Postgres, MS Access

Languages

Core java, JFC/Swing, Android Programming, C, C++

Web Tools

JSP, Servlets, EJB, HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript
Build Tool

Maven, ANT

Framework

Struts, Spring, Log4J, JUnit
ORM

Hibernate, iBatis
OOAD

OOPS, Design Pattern

Web Server

Tomcat
XML Parsers

SAX, DOM, XPATH

Configuration Mgmt.
CVS, Visual Source Safe (VSS)

IDE / Tools

Eclipse, Netbeans, Edit Plus, JIRA
Operating System

Windows Vista, Windows XP, Linux
QUALIFICATIONS
BE in Computer Science & Engineering from CCS University, Meerut in 2003 with an aggregate of 63%

12th from St. Teresa’s Academy, Modinagar ISC Board in 1999 with an aggregate of 66%

10th from St. Teresa’s Academy, Modinagar ICSE Board in 1997 with an aggregate of 75%

ACHIEVEMENTS

Silver medals twice in All-India Mathematics National Talent Search Contest organized by the Central Institute of General Knowledge Learning.
Received the award for excellent work done in NEC HCL.

EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES AND INTERESTS

Received Certificate of Merit in organizing and participating in Science Exhibition

Participated in Basketball matches at District level

Organized various cultural & Technical activities in school and college

Spending time on computer, learning new technologies; surfing





Pratap Kumar Sahoo

Mobile: 9986492110
Email: pratap.ku.sahoo@gmail.com
Objective


                      To achieve an aspiring and earnest position that not only supplements my present knowledge but also enhances my Technical and Creative skills and drives me towards a challenging career in a growth oriented organization.
Summary

· 6 years of experience in Software Designing and Development in Web Applications using Java and J2EE technologies in Telecom domain(OSS,BSS),Logistic domain and Healthcare.
· 1 year of experience in Mobile Application Development using Cross Platform technologies like 
Phonegap1.1 with HTML5, JQuery, JQuery UI Mobile, AJAX and Flex4.5 Mobile Framework.
· 2 years of experience in Adobe’s RIA technologies Flex3.0 and ActionScript 3.0 for Rapid Application Development.
· 1 year of experience in leading a module and team.
Have experience in customer facing, capturing requirement, understanding and implementing.
· Good skills on Core Java, JDBC, Struts1.1,
Spring and  Hibernate
· Proficiency in designing dynamic web pages using HTML, JSP, Flex3.0.
· Experienced in the usage and creation of database objects including triggers, stored procedures in Oracle RDBMS.
· Following Agile Software Development Process and TDD.
· Have shown exceptional learning and re-skilling abilities across a spectrum of technologies with rapid grasp, complemented within successful practical implementations.
· Good logical, analytical and communication skills.
· Dedication and drive as a hard-working individual.
Experience Summary

· Working as Technology Consultant in HP since Oct 2010 to till date.
· Worked as Technical Associate in TechMahindra Ltd since Feb. 2007 to Oct 2010.
Qualification

BE in CSE from Utkal University with First Division (69%).
10+2 in Science from CHSE with First Division (74%).
10th from B.S.E with First Division (78%).
Skill set

       Mobile Technologies
: Phonegap, HTML5, JQuery, JQueryUI Mobile, AJAX and  Android SDK

Operating Systems                          

: Windows, UNIX
       Programming Languages              

: Java, J2EE, PL/SQL
       Web Technologies                        

: Servlet 2.1, JSP1.2,
JSTL, HTML, XML, XSLT
       Scripting Languages                
: Freemarker (FTL), Action script 3.0, JavaScript, Perl,      UNIX Shell Scripting.
Component Technologies


: MDB, Java Beans

       Application Server


: Weblogic 9.2, Tomcat 5.0

       Database                                      
: Oracle 10g
       IDES(s)                                       

: Eclipse 3.2, Borland Together 2006.
Framework Technologies        

: Struts 1.1, Spring, Hibernate, Flex3.0
Configuration Management Tool
: SVN, VSS and Borland StarTeam.
Content Management


: Alfresco and Adobe CQ5.
WORK EXPERIENCE

HP GlobalSoft (Oct 2010 to till date)
Mobility
Project #1: MediaManager
Client


: DreamWorks Animation

Description: 
A groupware tool which allows the user to share and review the ongoing movie trailers with their coworkers and enables a more effective collaboration.
Functionality:
· Categorized video list which provides the key info about each available video.
· Paginated view of video list.
· Pull down refresh functionality for video list.
· Video search based on the tag.
Video details page with video player functionality.
Video download/delete option.
· Features to add/view/reply/edit/delete comments.
Paginated view of comments.
Pull down refresh option for comments.
Sort comment based on timeline, people, date time.
Search comment based on comment text.
· Offline access and submission capability.
· Can be accessed from any device through the HP Anywhere container.
· Utilized the EMG Key features such as Client/Server side pagination,Client/Server side caching, Offline submission.
Responsibilities:

· Capturing requirements, estimating and delivering on time.
· Leading the Server side modules.
· Designed the server side components and services.
· Implemented the Alfresco Webscript and REST services for MediaManager Application.
· Alfresco content modeling and MySQL database design.
· Coding in Webscript includes Javascript, JSON and Fremarker(FTL)
· Written the REST services using Spring.
Environnement: HP Enterprise Mobility Platform(HP EE,HP EMG),Sencha touch,CSS, Alfresco CMS,Webscript(Javascript,Freemarker,JSON),MySQL,Java,Spring,Eclipse,Tomcat.
Project #2: EMOFID
Client


: HP (Italy)

Description: 
NFC Application is a mobile application used by medical operators in the hospitals to read/write the RFID Tags and do the transfusion to match the blood bag with patient blood samples.
Medical operator can match the bags and sample using following RFID Tags

•         Operator Badge

•         Patient Bracelet

•         Blood Bag

•         Blood Sample

 NFC Application User interaction screens are developed using Html 5 , JQuery and Javascript .
The Application to be developed is primarily targeted for the Samsung Nexus S Android phone (Android 2.3.3
Gingerbread) having NFC capability.
Data synchronization is done to sync the local database with EMOFID server Database on event based model.
The data exchange during the synchronization is done by using web services.
During the synchronization, the application receive the latest patient records and store in the device local DB.
It also sends the transfusion data saved on the device.
After sending the data, the application receives the updated list of patients from the EMOFID server.
It replaces its current list with the updated list.
It also wipes out its current transfusion records that have been sent to sever.
Responsibilities:

· Leading the module 

· Customer facing, capturing requirements, estimating and delivering on time.
· Daily sending the status report.
· Phonegap Plug-in designing, coding

· Writing the SQL Cipher Plugin

· Writing File Handling utilities using Phonegap API.
· Coding in HTML5, JQuery, AJAX.
Environnement: Phonegap, HTML5, JQuery, AJAX, Android NFC Plugin, WEBSERVICE.
Project #3: Valentino on SUP
Client


: HP(Italy)
Description: 

Valentino offers a wide range of luxury products from Haute Couture to an extensive accessories collection that includes bags, shoes, small leather goods, belts, eyewear, watches and perfumes.
This application was developed to showcase the Valentino products on I-Pad, having swipe and Zoom feature for the product images.
It was developed for Valentino Clients/ partner to showcase the available products and allow them to configure their contact information and allows them to add items in their wish list.
It was having email facility to send the Wish list to Valentino configured email ids.
All the images and data were retrieved from the database and Air printing option for printing the wish list.
SUP is used as middleware to fetch data.
Responsibilities:

· Leading the module 

· Customer facing, capturing requirements, estimating and delivering on time.
· Daily sending the status report.
· Writing WebScripts.
· Customization of Alfresco and data modeling.
Environnement: Alfresco CMS on Windows, Spring Suite Tool, HTML, Javascript, AJAX, XCode, Objective C, iOS5.
Project #4: Shell Forum App.
Client


: Shell

Description: 

SEF Forum App is used by the Desk hostess to add and register the attendants.
The Event Manager can see the list of events.
Features
· Registering attendants by Desk hostess.
· Capturing Image.
· Feedback Questionnaire.
· Pinch Map Image

Responsibilities:
· Designing of Register module and coding using AJAX, JQuery.
· Designing and implementation of Feedback Module.
· Designing and implementation of Feedback Questionnaire Module in Web using CQ5.
· Using IScroll JQuery Plug-in to pinch and zoom image.
· Capturing Image using Phonegap API.
Environnement: Adobe CQ5 on Windows, Phonegap, HTML5, Javascript, AJAX 
Project #5: Valentino POC.
Client


: Valentino (HP Italy)
Description: 

The Fashion Catalogue application to showcase latest collections and Events
Features
· Swipe, Pinch, Zoom gestures to browse collection items

· Store locator to view stores worldwide

· Video to display the fashion show event 

· Stay connected to get updates from the brand

· Thumbnail view with large images

· Wish list management
Responsibilities:

· Designing and converting the UI in IOS Platform to Flex UI Mobile.
· Analyzing and converting the functionalities in ActionScript.
Tool and Technologies: Flex 4.5 and FlashBuilder 4.5,iPad, Samsung Galaxy Tab.
Project #6: Twitter Trend.
Client


: Prototype
Description: 

Tweeter trend is a social network analysis application, providing top 10 twitter trend.
Features
· Display Top 10 Twitter Trends

· View User List who tweet on a topic

· View all tweets from a User

Responsibilities:

· Designing and coding different Mobile Views.
· Writing the services to get the top twitter trends.
Tools and Technologies: Flex 4.5 and FlashBuilder 4.5, Android, Blackberry Playbook.
Web
Project #1: BRIAN CEVA
Duration

: Oct 2010 to Aug 2011
Client


: CEVA
Description: 

 CEVA One of the world’s leading logistics companies, providing end-to-end design, implementation and operational capabilities in freight forwarding, contract logistics, transportation management and distribution management.
BRIAN CEVA is a new integrated Transport Platform.
It provides the following features:

· Fast User Operativity

· Mouseless interaction (everything by keyboard)

· Easier fields filling (to replicate the consolidated user experience)

· Check field validity at insert time

· Automatic filling of dependend fields

· Direct search from static data at field filling

· Field Pre-filling with default values

· Multilanguage support

Responsibilities:

· Estimating Business requirements.
· Participate in Solution Design, Low Level Design and investigate the impact on BAU.
· Code and Code Walkthrough.
· Understanding the business Flow.
· UI Design and Coding in Flex 3.0 and Java.
· Writing the Server side components using Spring and hibernate.
· Unit Testing and Following TDD.
· Fault Resolution and Bug Fix.
· Leading the System Testing.
Environnement: Java 1.5, Flex 3.5, Spring, Hibernate, Weblogic 9.2, Eclipse3.0,
Oracle10g and BRIAN Framework and Wizard.
Project #2: ExstreamEdge Portal
Duration

: Aug 2011 to October 2011
Client


: CEVA
Description: 

ExstreamEdge portal is fast, centralized solution providing access to thousands of documents, data records and reports.
The Exstream EDGE portal helps the ExstreamEdge Sale Person how to use Exstream Products, to solve a business problem in an efficient, quick manner.
With documents and data spread over many systems, finding the right information quickly was no simple task - contributing to long ramp-up time for new hires, and hours of research wasted by even the most experienced of Exstream Sales representatives.
Features:
· Extended User Profile & application meta-data

User profiles synchronized from HP LDAP 

· Document Ratings

Ratings stored in the EE DB

· Enhanced Search (Free Text, Meta-data based)

join across multiple data sources & profile matching

· Landing Page Administration

Leadership Message, Announcement Updates

· Reporting and Tracking

Document, Wizard Usages, Search Performed, Doc rated etc. (audit log)

· Complex Wizard & Reports

· Link to additional static HTML’s 

New hire training, different industry materials etc.

· Social networking via Recent Events 

Ring the bell, Doc rating updates

· Security (Authentication using HP NTLM)

User synchronization, Document Index & content security (using MRU) 

· Rich Internet Application UI 

Add-on icons for effective communication to people

Using the portal the ExstreamEdge sales person is benefited by the following.
· Find Sales Enablement materials (solutions information, sales aids etc.)

· Find documents from multiple SharePoint sites using a quick, efficient search which is customized to your personal needs

· Find out what documents others are using and recommending 

· Find people (in and out of HP) who might help you with your sale

· Find reference accounts by name, by product, by industry and more

· Obtain customer information, such as product configuration and operating system, support tickets, product download information and more

· Mine win/loss data in seconds

· Create your own interactive playbooks
Responsibilities:

· Estimating Business requirements.
· Participate in Solution Design, Low Level Design and investigate the impact on BAU.
· Code and Code Walkthrough.
· Understanding the business Flow.
· UI Design and Coding in Flex 3.0 and Java.
Environnement: Java 1.5, Adobe Flex 3.5, Tomacat 6, Eclipse3.0,
MYSQL, LAL, SharePoint, Solr, Adobe CQ5, Entropysoft, LDAP.
TechMahindra Ltd (Feb 2007 to Oct 2010)
Project #1: rPACS
Duration

: Feb 2009 to till date.
Client


: BT GS

Description:

        It’s a complete solution for managing network (BT’s SDH Network) including:

· Planning (new network)

· Assignment (of new services)

· Configuration (of network elements)
It ensures that multi-technology, multi-vendor transmission networks are managed effectively, efficiently and reliably.
Manages the whole engineering lifecycle from network planning through to service implementation.
It Provides industry leading levels of productivity and helps maximise the utilisation of network assets.
rPACS provides the following:

· Service provisioning

· Structure Planning.
· Equipment Modelling.
· Network Schemes.
· Electronic Documentation.
· Visualisation.
· Capacity Management.
· Scalability.
As a CR Owner and being a Developer is responsible for the following activities.
·  Estimating Business requirements.
· Participate in Solution Design, Low Level Design and investigate the impact on BAU.
· Code and Code Walkthrough.
· Understanding the business Flow.
· UI Design and Coding in Flex 3.0 and Java.
· Unit Testing and Following TDD.
· Fault Resolution and Bug Fix.
· CST, CIT and E2E support.
Environment: Java 1.5, Flex 3.0, Jsp, Servlert, Jdbc, Weblogic 9.2, Eclipse3.0,
Oracle10g.
Project #2: AB+ Transformation
Duration

: Aug2008-Jan2009
Client


: BT GS
Description:

BT Global Services (GS) is responsible for managing the customer relationship of BT’s global enterprise customers across geography units: UK, Europe, Asia Pacific, and America.
AB+ Program caters to the following needs

·    Transformation of legacy systems to strategic stack across geographies.
·     Speeding up of the billing process.
·     To improve the RFT and CT.
Among the various components involved in the above Program Order Service Management being one among them performs the following functions:
·     Creates order templates.
·     Receive order from Siebel+ and route it to appropriate provisioning system.
·     Send KSU’s from downstream systems to upstream system.
·     Send the billing notification to BAL via BPEL/ESB systems upon the completion of provisioning of         order.
·    Provide UI for manually entering the response from the order fulfillment systems like Orion.
As a Developer is responsible for the following activities:

·    Involve in the POC by writing the code for stubs.
·    Writing the XSLT for transformation
·    Writing the java plug-in for different cartridges.
·    Handling the cartridges by adding/modifying the framework rules, views.
·    Unit testing and test plan

·    Preparing the test data for unit testing.
Environment: Java5.0,
Weblogic 9.2, JMS, MDB, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Shell Scripting, Sun Solaris.
Project #3: Customer Based Price Package (ADDER)
Duration

: Apr 2007-July2008
Client


: BT Retail
Description:
BT (British Telecom) is one of the largest telecom service providers in the United Kingdom.
They have a very strong customer base in the United Kingdom.
They offer a wide Variety of telecom products to their business customer & domestic customers.
The ADDER system deals with the various commitment level products for British Telecom where new installations being added, modified and moved between contracts of various Customer Networks.
The system essentially keeps track of these changes to ensure business by paying discounts and commissions to the customer depending upon some usage contracts and also increases the profitability to the Client.
Responsibilities:
· Coding & Code walkthrough.
· Participate in Designing.
· Prepare test data for unit testing.
· Writing Junit Test cases.
· Preparation of unit test specification, Integration test plan and User Acceptance test plan.
· Fill the defect log report after testing.
· Faults resolutions.
· CST, CIT and E2E Support.
Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts, Bea Weblogic 8.1, Web Service, Eclipse, Shell scripting, Perl, Oracle10g, Sun Solaris 5.8.
Personal details

Father’s Name

: Bidyadhar Sahoo

Date of Birth

: 05-05-1982

Sex


: Male
Marital Status

: Single

Nationality

: Indian

Passport No                  : G3009462
Self Sketch: Ambitious, hardworking, dedicating, optimistic.
Declaration:I herewith declare that all of the above information furnished here is true to the best of my knowledge.
Place: Bangalore



                                        Pratap Kumar Sahoo.
Date: 

PAGE  
1


PRITHWISH DAS                                                        

E-mail                :   mrprithwish.das@gmail.com
Mobile                :   +91 9886047085
LinkedIn            :   http://in.linkedin.com/pub/prithwish-das/52/325/287
Passport       
    :  G8213142
PAN                    :    ANAPD8681P
A Creative & Dedicated, B-Tech (I.T, 83.5%) Technical Lead with 6.0 yrs professional experience in Android 4.2 , HTML5 ,J2ME Application development.
________________________________________________________________________

Educational Qualification:

B-TECH (I.T)                      West Bengal University          2002-06                       83.5 %

                                                     Of Technology

HIGHER SECONDARY      West Bengal Council of           2002
                        66.3 %

            (10+2)                       Higher Secondary Education    

 MADHYAMIK (10th)
 West Bengal Board of              2000                        80.4 %
                                                   Secondary Education

Designation:   Technical Lead
Executive Summary:
· Certified Scrum Master from Scrum Alliance.
· Experienced in WebRTC based browser application development using HTML5 & JavaScript.
· Experienced in Android Application designing, development &debugging using Eclipse IDE.
· Experience in cross platform mobile application development using Appcelarator Titanium Studio IDE.
· Experienced in flash able Android source code building for SEMC devices using make file.
· Experienced in NFC based Application development (Android, J2ME).
· Experienced in J2ME (S60/S40) Mobile Games & Application Designing, Development and Deployment using Java APIs (MIDP2.x
and CLDC1.1).
· Experienced in 3D Graphics programming using Java Binding for Open GLES 1.0/2.0 for Android and J2ME platforms.
· Experienced in SOA mobile client (J2ME) development for S60/S40 devices using Java Web Services Specification (JSR-172) API.
· Basic knowledge of iOS & BlackBerry WebOS application framework.
· Strong Communication and Team co-ordination skill & presentation skills.
· Excellent Interviewing skills.
Job Responsibilities:

· Designing android application based on business requirements.
· Project design documentation and client interaction.
· Project effort estimation, backlog creation, and sprint planning as a SCRUM Master.
· Intensive client interaction and update the product backlog based on the requirement request.
· Feature implementation and bug fixing.
· Code review and code optimization.
· Conducting Internal Technical Trainings on Java/Android/J2ME technologies.
· Conducting Technical Interview for Android/ J2ME candidates.
Professional Experience:   

· Currently working as Technical Lead (Android) at Sony India Software Centre, Bangalore from May 2011 till date.
· Worked as Sr.Software Engineer (Android) from January-09 to Feb-11 at Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd, Chennai.
· Worked as a Game Developer and Designer (J2ME) from August-06 to May-08 at Rz2Games Pvt.
Ltd, Goa.
Professional Goals:   

· Designed and developed an android application (Bandwidth Analyzer Tool) as a vital contribution to the cross platform next generation research and development on Adaptive Streaming Technology at Sony India Pvt Ltd.

· Done research and development on Near Field Communication Technology for various mobile platforms i.e.
Android2.3.3,
J2ME (MIDP2.1).
· Worked as a Senior Android developer with the Swedish development team of a social networking software (Community) targeted for Sony Ericsson Android 2.1 phones while working as Android software development consultant at Sony Ericsson Mobile Communication, Lund, Sweden from January 2010 to June 2010.
· Developed Mobile Phone “3D Content Viewer” application for Java mobile using OPENGL- ES (JSR-239) for Sasken Communication & Technologies, Hyderabad.
· Developed “Phone Arena” a Web service based application for Java Mobile using JSR-172(J2ME Web Service & XML parsing) for Sasken Communication Technologies, Hyderabad.
· Designed & Developed the 6 premium Mobile Games (2D) targeted for the MIDP1 /MIDP2 devices for RZ2 Games Pvt Ltd, Goa.
Android Applications:
1. Name of the Project : CSX Video-Chat
Platform/Genre        : Webkit based Browser 
Brief Project Description: This is a browser application targeted for Android handheld devices running Honeycomb or above androidOS.It implements WebRTC standards to accomplish video data exchange over the peer connection.
It follows ROAP/JSEP model of WebRTC specification.
The application runs on a client browser (webkit based) and captured video through the available camera and video hardware and displays on the UI using HTML5 tag.Websocket server /GAE is used as provisioning server in the application architecture for peer signaling purpose.
Responsibilities: 

1) Application architecture designing.
2) Technical Design documentation.
3) Conducting daily scrum meeting and mitigation planning for issue found by the team

4) Mentoring new joinees on the project technologies.
5) Investigation and POC implementation on WebRTC specification using HTML5 & JS.

6) Client interaction and requirement gathering & analysis.
7) Presenting project demo to clients.
8) Helping project peers in solving problem.
9) Weekly project status reporting to client.
Technologies Used: HTML5, JavaScript, MobilejQuery, Java, Android.
Tools Used: JDK1.6, Eclipse 4.2, Android4.2
SDK, Android NDK r7, Google App Engine SDK

Duration of the Project: Oct 2012- till date.
2. Name of the Project : HAS Analyzer Tool
Platform/Genre        : Android 2.3 - 4.1
Brief Project Description: This is an Android application that uses custom native library written in C. The library is capable of downloading sampled media file segments using Adaptive Streaming Algorithm.
It is basically a curl based library.
It uses the .so
file of the native library and queries exposed api of the native library to get the download metrics .Based on the metrics HAS Analyzer application calculates SMA, SD, Link-Speed etc and displays on the device screen.
It also plots dynamic graph using android graphics library.
It also allows the user to log the geo-location along with other metrics in a csv file.
User could also upload the csv file on a Google App Engine Server over the http connection.
Responsibilities: 

10) High Level designing and documentation for the application.
11) Client interaction and requirement gathering & analysis.
12) Feature development , testing & bug fixing.
13) Sprint Planning and Scrum Mastering
14) Helping project peers in solving problem.
15) Weekly status reporting
Tools Used: JDK1.6, Eclipse 4.2, Android4.1 SDK, Android NDK r7,Google App Engine SDK
Duration of the Project: Jan 2012- Sept 2012.
3. Name of the Project : Bandwidth Analyzer Tool
Platform/Genre        : Android 2.3/3.1/Google
TV
Brief Project Description: This Android application downloads multimedia files using http connection over the available network connectivity from a web server.
And based on some specific formulas and app/socket layer data-downloading (bandwidth) information calculates the SMA, SD bandwidth values.
Another part of the application plots the values to 2D dynamic graphs on the user interface.
The graphs could be of Linear or Logarithmic type.
Another application works as a settings application for the BWA tool.
The Settings tool basically maintains a database (SqlLite) table that holds the settings/profiles information which in turn gets used by the BWA tool to analyze the bandwidth data.
Responsibilities: 

1) High Level designing and documentation for the application.
2) Client interaction and requirement gathering & analysis.
3) Task creation and project estimation.
4) Module ownership.
5) Helping project peers in solving problem.
6) Weekly status reporting and demo presentation to Client.
Tools Used: JDK1.6, Eclipse 3.6, Android2.1/2.3.3/3.0
SDK
Duration of the Project: May 2011- Dec 2011.
4. Name of the Project : Mobile -Payment (NFC)

Platform/Genre        : Android 2.3.3/Android
Application

Brief Project Description: The solution provides an end to end mobile payment & provisioning framework that leverages the user to provision his device as a payment card (Visa/Master) through proper authentication by the TSM (Trusted Service Manager).The user could get the details from a NFC Smart poster (Movie ticketing) on his device just by placing the device near the poster and further proceed with movie ticket purchasing through PayPal open payment API from the device using gprs.
Responsibilities: 

     1) Research on Near Field Communication technology on mobile platforms (J2ME (JSR-        

         257)/Android 2.3)

     2) Development of utility midlets to read and write NFC Smart Poster.
3) Study and capability demonstration on the NFC -mobile technology.
4) Involvement in business development process through demonstrating NFC-Mobile 
         Payment application to Clients.
5) Status reporting.
Tools Used: JDK1.6, Eclipse 3.6, Android2.3.3
SDK, NFC SDK

Duration of the Project: January 2011- February 2011.
4. Name of the Project: Community3.0

Platform/Genre        : Android2.3/Android
Application

Brief Project Description: This project evolves in porting the existing Community android software on the new Android 2.3(Gingerbread) along with new database design and implementation using SqlLite library.
Responsibilities: 
1) Platform compatibility analysis.
2) Implementing feature to integrate community with Contacts and Phone application.
3) Database designing and data migration.
4) Unit test case development & Unit testing.
5) Peer code review.
6) Scrum status reporting.
Tools Used: JDK1.5, Eclipse 3.4, Android Ginger Bread SDK , SqlLite Library.
Duration of the Project: August 2010 – December 2010.

     5. Name of the Project:  Settings Application
Platform/Genre        : Android 2.1/Android Application

Brief Project Description: This is the core settings application resides on Android phone which leverages user to control settings (display, sound, sync, data roaming etc)for  all the applications installed on the phone.
Responsibilities: 
1) Bug fixing and unit testing.
2) Peer code review.
3) Status reporting.
Tools Used: JDK1.5, Eclipse 3.4, SEMC -Android SDK2.1

Duration of the Project: June 2010 – July2010.
6. Name of the Project: Community2.0
Platform/Genre        : Android 2.1/Android Application

Brief Project Description: This Android application (android2.1)
enables user to manage tariff contact’s groups for a particular operator on his device.
User could add-edit contacts/groups on device and could synchronize with the live operator servers using this android application.
Responsibilities: 
1) Stability & Quality analysis of the software.
2) Bug fixing and unit testing.
3) Peer code review.
4) Status reporting.
Tools Used: JDK1.5, Eclipse 3.4, SEMC -Android SDK2.1

Duration of the Project: April 2010 – May2010.
7. Name of the Project: Contacts Application Customization
Platform/Genre        : Android 2.1/Android Application
Brief Project Description: A feature customization of the Contacts application which will integrate a Social Community Application with Contacts application.
The feature is developed for a SEMC SDK release based on Android 2.1(Eclair).
Responsibilities: 
1) Understanding the Feature Requirement and Designing.
2) UI development & testing build on Android prototype.
3) XML parser development to read customization XML file.
4) Implementation and Unit test case development.
5) Integrating code with the build server (Hudson).
6) Project status reporting.
Tools Used: JDK1.5, Eclipse 3.4, SEMC-Android SDK2.1
Duration of the Project: January 2010 – March 2010.
J2ME Applications: 

     1. Name of the Project: Sasken – Face Book
Platform/Genre        : S60-S40 J2ME / Mobile Application

Brief Project Description: This is a social networking application ie facebook, Orkut for MIDP mobiles which leverages the user to blog, scrap, photo sharing among their friends circle.
The application is being developed using the MIDP profile on top of that LWUIT widget to design the UI.
JSR/Widgets Implemented:  JSR-118 (MIDP2.0),
JSR-139(CLDC1.1),
JSR-135(MMAPI), JSR-75(File Connection) & LWUIT Widget.
Responsibilities: 
1) Designing the application framework using MVC design pattern.
2) Developing UI widgets using LWUIT Lib.

3) Application theme development using LWUIT resource editor.
4) Project planning and task scheduling for team.
Tools Used: JDK1.6_11,
Sun WTK3.0EA,
LWUIT Library, Sprint WTK3.1
Duration of the Project: October 2009 – December 2009
 2. Name of the Project: “3D Mobile Photo Viewer”  

Platform/Genre:         S60-S40 J2ME / OpenGLES Mobile Application

Brief Project Description: This is a premium MIDP application developed on Symbian S60 platform targeting the S60 Java mobile devices having openGL ES rendering capability.
It provides a simple and convenient UI for the user to view their photographs stored on the mobile device in an artistic manner.
The entire application user interface has been designed and developed using the openGL ES (2D/3D) rendering techniques.
JSR /Widgets Implemented:   JSR-118 (MIDP2.0-GameCanvas),
JSR-139(CLDC1.1-Floating point), JSR-239(Java Binding for OpenGL ES), JSR-135(MMAPI), JSR -75(File Connection API), Nokia UI API 1.1

Responsibilities:  

1) Setting up the application programming environment for the openGL ES development using J2ME API (JSR-239).
2) Exploring the JSR-239 API and its limitations.
3) Writing demo MIDlets using JSR-239 to demonstrate 3D rendering (texturing, Lightning, blending) capabilities in open GLES to the team members.
4) Designing & Developing UI for the application using OpenGLES (JSR-239).
5) Implementing the File connection (JSR-75) to read image files from SD Card memory.
Tools Used: JDK1.6 (Java Compiler), Nokia S60 SDK3rdEdition, Sun WTK2.5.2 JCreator.
Duration of the Project: April 2009 – September 2009
   3. Name of the Project:  “Mobile FoneArena”

Platform / Genre:     S60-S40 J2ME / Client-Server Mobile Application

Brief Project Description: This is a premium MIDP application developed for the Symbian S60 Java mobile devices.
This Application is a client part of the SOA structure where the user can send a request to the server and get some response from the server.
The received XML is parsed using the JAXP parser to get the intended information on the Mobile UI.
JSRs Implemented:  JSR-118 (MIDP2.0),
JSR-139(CLDC1.1), and JSR-172 (Web service and XML parsing).
Responsibilities:

1) Designing the project.
2) Setting up project development environment.
3) Designing & Development of the client Midlet application to consume the hoisted web service.
4) Coding parser handler class for parsing the XML response from the server.
5) Coding java classes needed for typecasting the parsed data to java primitives.
6) Coding UI class for taking user input and displaying the server response.
7) Deployment of the application on the Emulator.
Tools Used: JDK1.4.2 (Java Compiler), Nokia S60 SDK3rdEdition, Tomcat 5.0 for Java Web service Developer Pack, Java Web service Developer Pack 1.5, Apache Ant 1.7.1,
Sun WTK2.5.2,
Sun Device Emulator, JCreator
Duration of the Project: Jan2009 – March 2009.
J2ME Games :

1. Name of the projects: Wolfenstine 3D”,“Simpsons II”, “California GamesX”, 

                                            “Sims2Bundle”, “Game of Life”

Platform / Genre:            S60-S40-J2ME / Mobile Games

Brief Project Description: Deployment of MIDP1.0 / MIDP2.0
Mobile games 
for several handsets (LG, Sanyo, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung, ZTE).
JSR/API Implemented: JSR-118 (MIDP2.0),
JSR-139(CLDC1.1),
JSR-135(MMAPI),
Samsung Audio Clip API, Nokia UI API, Sprint API

Responsibilities:

1) Project Code Review

2) Thread, Sound, key event, Game logic, Graphical corruption related issue fixing.
3) Porting high end build on low end devices having less memory and processing speed.
4)  Memory management and application performance optimization.
5) Implementing Sprint APIs for Sanyo Device.
6) Implementing Samsung Audio Clip API for playing sound on device.
7) Implementing Nokia UI API for Nokia devices.
8) Resource optimization to reduce the JAR size.
9) Unit testing on the devices(i.e.
Nokia, LG, SE, Motorola, Samsung, Pantech, Sanyo)

10) Guiding team members with stable issue fixing technique.
Tools Used: JDK1.5 (Java Compiler), Ant 1.7.1,
Beyond Compare, JCreator editor

   Nokia S60 3rd edition SDK, SE SDK and Emulators, Motorola SDK and Emulators

Sanyo SDK and Emulators, Samsung SDKs and Emulators, Sun WTK 2.5
Duration of Project: January 2008 – May 2008
2. Name of the Project : “Crazy Monkey” 

      Platform / Genre:         S60-S40 J2ME / Mobile Game

Brief Project Description: A deluxe 2D Java mobile game of Arcade genre designed and developed for the S40 & S60 devices.
The main character of the game is a monkey who steals the mangoes from the trees, shops even from houses.
So the user has to help him doing that while saving from the enemies.
JSRs Implemented:  JSR-118 (MIDP2.0),
JSR-139(CLDC1.1),
JSR-135(MMAPI),
Nokia UI API1.1 
Responsibilities:  

1) Designing the Game and preparing the product proposal document.
2) Documenting the Game Design document and Class Design document.
3) Guiding the artist for developing game art assets.
4) Project status reporting
5) Implementing state machine for the Application.
6) Coding canvas class for game animation and game logic.
7) Used Nokia UI API for polygon drawing and full screen.
8) Deployment and testing the application on S60 Nokia Phones Nokia N73, Nokia 6600, Nokia 6020, Nokia N7610, Nokia 3110c.
9) Creative Developer recognition on the promotion of “Crazy Monkey” at CHAOS’07 at IIT Roorkee.
Tools Used: JDK1.6 (Java Compiler), NetBeans5.5
IDE, Adobe Photoshop CS 

Nokia S60 3rd edition SDK, Sun WTK
Duration of the Project:  May 2007 – December 2007
3. Name of the project:  “Dance and Jump Action”

Platform/Genre:  S60-S40 J2ME / Mobile Game

Brief Project Description: A deluxe 2D java mobile game of Music-Sports genre designed and developed for s40 and S60 devices.
The game has been designed based on the “parkour-free running” sport.
The player has to do athletic moves while some obstacles come on his way.
Better you move better you score.
JSRs Implemented: JSR-118 (MIDP2.0),
JSR-139(CLDC1.1),
JSR-135(MMAPI)

Nokia UI API1.1   

Responsibilities: 

1) Designing the Game and preparing the product proposal document.
2) Documenting the Game Design document and Class Design document.
3) Guiding the artist for developing game art assets.
4) Implementing state machine for the Application.
5) Project status reporting.
6) Developing a graphic tool for creating alpha processed images on runtime in the midlet application.
7) Coding canvas class for game animation and game logic.
8) Used Nokia UI API for direct Graphics drawing and full screen implementation.
9) Used Nokia UI API Direct Graphics for PNG Image Processing to change the palette (ARGB) of the image.
10) Deployment and testing the application on Nokia Phones Nokia N73, Nokia 6600, Nokia 6020, Nokia N7610, Nokia 3110c.
Tools Used: JDK1.5 (Java Compiler), NetBeans5.5
IDE, Adobe Photoshop CS 

Nokia S60 3rd edition SDK, Sun WTK
Duration of Project: December 2006 to April 2007
4. Name of the project: “3D SQUASH”

Platform/Genre:  S60 –S40 J2ME / Mobile Game

Brief Project Description: A deluxe 2D mobile game of Sports genre designed and developed for S40 &S60 devices.
The game is designed based on the Squash game where the player has to hit the ball to the wall facing.
JSRs Implemented: JSR-118 (MIDP2.0),
JSR-139(CLDC1.1)
JSR-135(MMAPI)

 Nokia UI API1.1

Responsibilities: 

1. Designing the Game and preparing the product proposal document.
2. Documenting the Game Design document and Class Design document.
3. Guiding the artist for developing game art assets.
4. Project status reporting.
5. Implementing state machine for the Application.
6. Coding canvas class for game animation and game logic.
7. Developed custom UI using custom font for taking user name input.
8. Deployment and testing the application on Nokia Phones Nokia N73, Nokia 6600, Nokia 6020, Nokia N7610, Nokia 3110c.
Tools Used: JDK1.5 (Java Compiler), NetBeans5.5
IDE, Adobe Photoshop CS 

Nokia S60 3rd edition SDK, Sun WTK
Duration of Project: August 2006 – November 2006
Professional Skills:

· Programming Languages   :    HTML5 ,JavaScript ,Android 4.2 ,Java ,J2ME 
· Programming IDE              :    Eclipse 4.2(Juno) , Net Beans IDE 6.5
· Tools :                                :    JDK1.6 , ADT21.,Android-DDMS ,ADB log cat, Git Repo 

                                                 , Gerrit, Redmine issue tracker tool.
· Application Server              :  Tomcat 5.0 for JWSDP1.5,WebSocket
Server,GAE Server
· Pixel Art & Animation        :  Adobe Photoshop CS2 

· Emulation Software’s         :  Android SDK(Donut-Éclair-Froyo-Gingerbread, ICS-JB), 

                                                     Titanium IDE,  J2ME Sun WTK3.0,
Sony Ericsson, Nokia 
                                                     S40/S60 SDKs 

· Sound Editing s/w            :    Sound Forge 6     

· Operating Systems           :    Ubuntu11.10
, Windows (98 / XP / Win7 ) 

Theoretical Knowledge:  Operating System, Software Engineering (SDLC)
Trainings & Certifications: 
· Undergone 32 hrs workshop on project Management and Effective communication from Sony Corporate training Institute in Oct 2012.
· Attended Blackberry Boot Camp workshop in Great Indian Developer Summit 2012 at IISC, Bangalore.
· Attended Android Next Generation Workshop by Marko Geneta of Marakana in April 2012.
· Certified Scrum Master from Good Agile Pvt ltd in Feb 2012.
· Attended 4-days workshop on iOS application development at Masters Skill Pvt ltd Bangalore.
Personal Profile:


Date of Birth:
 20 - 05-1985


Father’s name:
 Mr.Biswanath Das
 Address:

Mr. Prithwish Das 

Plot no 515/1,4th Cross,

Behind Bandimakkalam Temple Road,

Bellandur Village, Bangalore-560103   
Languages Known:
 English, Japanese , Hindi and  Bengali
Hobbies:    Choreography, Playing Guitar, Designing Mobile Games, Bikes  

Extra Curricular Activities:       

1. Received Best Delivery Team Award by Sony India in July 2012.
2. Received SPOT Award & Appreciation Certificate from Sasken Communication for excellent effort to achieve Sasken the Best supplier –software consultancy and Outsourcing from SEMC Ltd.
3.   Member of Android, Blackberry, J2ME forums for Mobile application development.
4.  Organized & choreographed several College/company Cultural (Dance) Events.

5.   Awarded National Scholarship in VIII STD in 1998.
6.   Topped (CGPA 9.1) in the final year (2006) in B-Tech Degree in College.
Place:  Bangalore                                                                   (PRITHWISH DAS)


Ramya K		  				                                     Email: ramyaksharma@gmail.com;
Phone: +91-9916315588 


Objective: Seeking a challenging position to utilize my skills and abilities in an Industry that offers professional growth 
with the industry while being resourceful, innovative and flexible.
Summary
5+ years of experience in delivering technology solutions for Telecom Services and Systems in Product and Application development.
I have been flexible and worked in diverse roles as the team/organization demanded.
Experiences include:
· Solid technical Experience in Core Java for developing tools and good understanding of Java coding standards.
· Good knowledge and Experience on Android Application (Java) development and Native Library development (JNI).
· Experience in Android Web Application Development using JQuery, CSS3, HTML5
· Exposure to Blackberry development
· Experience in XML, J2EE Servlets
· Experience in writing user stories, documentation/presentations and mentoring new joiners & other team members.
· Experience in working in Agile/SCRUM mode.
· Exposure to Symbian-S60 Build and Integration process and fixing bugs related to S60 Gallery C++ applications.
· Exposure to writing Perl/Python scripts to improve the Integration and Debugging process.
Significant Achievements
· Received Best Performance award from Sony India Software Center
· Received Appreciation/Kudos award twice for best performance from Nokia India Pvt Ltd.
· Trained on Advanced Android by Marko Gargenta (1 day workshop)
· Completed ITIL V3 training and certification.
· Trained on Symbian C++, QT for Symbian, UML at Nokia.
· Trained on S60 Integration & Error triaging process at Nokia UK.
· Stood 2nd in BE (Telecommunications) in our college.
Technical Skills

	Environments worked on
	Linux, Android, Symbian, Blackberry, Windows (User level)

	Languages/Tools/Platforms worked on
	Core Java, Android, C, J2EE, XML, Perl, Cocoon, Javascript, Richfaces, Symbian C++, S60, J2ME, QT
Eclipse, HTTPWatch, Carbide, Phoenix, FastTrace, StarUML, NSIS

	Version Control Tool
	CM Synergy, iSource-SVN

	Databases
	PostGreSQL8.1,
SQL



Work Experience
Employment Details:

Sony India Software Center, From 5th May 2011 to 17th August 2012
Worked on Android Java Tools & on Native library (HTTP Adaptive Streaming) development for Android 2.2 and above.
mPortal India Wireless Pvt Ltd, From 2nd August 2010 to 21st Jan 2011.
Worked for Android and Blackberry Java Application development, for client Dex One and Comcast.
Nokia India (P) Ltd, Bangalore 29th June, 2007 to 23rd July, 2010.
Worked for Nokia India (P) Ltd.: Involved in multiple projects as the team/organization demanded.
I started mainly on S60 UI integration and Error Triaging of S60 Multimedia applications for N78 & N96.
Later I was involved in requirement study, design, development of tools in Java and CDB (Configuration Database), a Java/J2EE project catering more than 1.5 million Mobile Configuration Requests per day.
I was involved in SSO-SDK integration tools development and customer integration of this SDK with various services targeted to integration with Ovi.
Professional Experience Details:
 
HTTP Adaptive Streaming (Analysis Tools and Library development)
	Duration
	1 year+ 

	Platform & Tools 
	Android Java, Eclipse, C, Android SDK & NDK, Apache, Python, HTML5, JS, CSS

	Team Size
	6 

	Description / Salient Features
	Tools: Development of necessary tools to test Adaptive Streaming which will also help in designing an algorithm for Adaptive Streaming.
Using the tools developed, design-develop-test HTTP Adaptive Streaming for MPEG DASH & Apple HTLS standards
Library: MPEG DASH parser and a playlist manager to interact with the Adaptive Bit rate selection algorithm (Common module for Apple HLS & MPEG DASH).
The library also includes MP4 Parser for handling onDemand profile (sidx/ssix parser).
This library is now under QA by Core (Bravia) TV team and is scheduled to be shipped by July.
Roles & Responsibilities
	· Significantly Contributed in Android (Java) Bandwidth Analyzer tool design & development.
The same design was used for Windows tool development
· Contributed in Server set-up and Development for LIVE server simulation for MPEG DASH using Python
· Independently designed & developed MPD Parser and DASH Play-list Manager modules (C)
· Complete analysis and design on MP4 file parser (SIDX element parsing only) for implementing DASH onDemand profile (C)
· Provided API documentation for the users of this library
· Web based Android application to show the performance of the Library
· Received Best performance award for major contributions & customer satisfaction



Comcast (Xfinity)
	Duration
	2months

	Platform & Tools 
	Blackberry Java, Eclipse, RIM, JDE

	Team Size
	4

	Description / Salient Features
	Comcast, recently rebranded as Xfinity, launched a site http://www.comcast.net
which provides TV programs listings, currently running movies with its reviews and also E-mail, voice mail services for its subscribers.
The premiere subscribers can record a program and set reminders for their favorite programs.
Roles & Responsibilities
	· Contributed in re-architecture of TV listing module 
· Change of request/response protocols from using XML to JSON as per changes at the server side



Dex Knows
	Duration
	4months

	Platform & Tools 
	Android Java, Eclipse, Blackberry (Only UI)

	Team Size
	4

	Description / Salient Features
	Dex Knows is a location based search application which shows nearby needed places ranging from Restaurants to Hospitals to gas stations and also any events registered at Dex. Searching for a particular category lists the results in order of distance from your place.
It also allows you to share the places/events on Facebook, twitter and also via SMS & Mail.
Roles & Responsibilities
	· Contributed in UI components design and development
· Major implementation of Twitter & Facebook Implementation
Handled complete UI changes from 420*360 to 420*320 & 320*240 (Blackberry)



Service Provisioning Tool (SPT) 
	Duration
	4 months 

	Platform & Tools 
	RichFaces, Facelets, LDAP, MySQL, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, SVN, 
QT (Sample application)

	Team Size
	3

	Description / Salient Features
	SPT is a process control and key provisioning tool for Nokia SSO SDK integration to various services.
Once the keys are provisioned a sample application is also available for download which would have all the configurations prefilled and basic SDK functionalities implemented

	Roles & Responsibilities
	· Involved in study, design & implementation of the UI using RichFaces and Facelets.
· Involved in development of CRUD features for provisioning services, authentication for the tool & mailing feature.
· Developed an installer using NSIS for the service
· Developed sample application using QT for S60 devices 



Configuration Database
	Duration
	1 year, 4 Months

	Platform & Tools 
	Apache Cocoon, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JSON, Servlets, PostgresSQL, Log4j, Junit, JMeter, Ant, Eclipse, Perl, Tomcat, SVN

	Team Size
	5

	Description / Salient Features
	CDB is a server application that serves configurations to mobile client applications.
It uses an XML based configuration protocol designed just for this purpose.
Configurations on the CDB are created, modified and tested using a web-based GUI, the CDB Admin UI.
The monitoring feature added to Admin UI allows helps in detecting the possible problems, request peaks, response times.
Roles & Responsibilities
	· Involved in end to end system study.
· Involved in study of new requirements and design.
· Implementation and testing of GUI, monitoring & services.
· Involved in managing CDB configurations & monitoring by taking the ownership with the help of other team members.
· Suggested new features to improve the usage & documented.
Received Kudos award for getting customers for some of the use cases & its implementation.
Globalization Testing Toolkit
	Duration
	6 months

	Platform & Tools 
	Java, XML, Eclipse, CM Synergy

	Team Size
	3

	Description / Salient Features
	Intended to be used by the developers of internationalized applications as a part of unit level testing.
The toolkit included three components: A policy code checker, a pseudo Localizer and L10N Optimizer.
Roles & Responsibilities
	· Involved in writing Requirement document and design analysis.
· Involved  in developing the Policy check tool 
· Designed/Developed GUI for the tool using SWING.
· Involved in study of pseudo Localizer.
· Involved in developing various phases of  L10N optimizer
· Developed a Windows Installer for the application using NSIS.
Emulator based S60 Localization Test Application
	Duration
	1  month 

	Platform & Tools 
	S60, C++, Java, XML, CM Synergy

	Team Size
	3

	Description / Salient Features
	Intended to be used by the Localization Testers to eliminate overheads like purchase and shipping of protos etc.

	Roles & Responsibilities
	· Involved in developing Java module for Excel to XML conversion.
· Involved in developing XML SAX parser in S60 C++ as part of the engine.
· Received Kudos award for commitment and delivery of tools.
Code line policy Automation
	Duration
	3 weeks

	Platform & Tools 
	Perl

	Team Size
	1

	Description / Salient Features
	Intended to be used by SW Asset teams involved in developing Independent Applications.
Roles & Responsibilities
	· Involved in study of code line policies for S60 independent applications and automating them using Perl.
This was later integrated to Code Scanner.
Release, Integration and Error Triaging
	Duration
	10 months

	Platform & Tools 
	Symbian, S60, C++, Perl scripts, CM Synergy, Phoenix, Prommer, FastTrace

	Team Size
	6

	Roles & Responsibilities
	· Integration of about seven S60 UI applications and the Symbian-S60 RnD Environment for internal developers & locating root cause of bugs on specific products
· Developed logging application using S60 C++
· Developed scripts to ease integration and debugging process and reduce manual intervention during integration.
Paper Submissions
Testing for Globalization and Localization : Best Practices and Techniques
The paper was submitted to the 8th Annual International Software Testing Conference, 2008 and was selected to the best 25 papers submitted.
Voice Over IP
The paper on VoIP (H.323, SIP & E911) was submitted to OSMOSIS (Mindtree).
Self Projects
Soul Mate: 
	Submitted to FORUM NOKIA – Calling for innovators - It’s our belief to match Sun or Moon signs or numerology while looking out for our right partner.
This cool application gives you those details instantly.
The application was developed in QT C++ and is compatible on all S60 5.0 phones & windows desktop.
The same application is also ported on to Android (Java).
Educational Background
B. Tech (Bachelors in Technology) Details
Completed Undergraduate Degree (B.E) in Telecommunication from Bangalore Institute of Technology Karnataka, in the year 2007 with 79.8%
Pre-Engineering Education Details

Details
School/  College
Year of passing
Percentage
SSLC
Florence High School, Bangalore
2001
90.56
II PUC
MMK & SDM Girls PU College, Mysore
2003
93
  





Personal Details
Date of Birth 			: 	13th February 1986 
Contact Details 			: 	 W/O Y Venkata Ramana
 No. 24, Mathru Krupa 
 FCI Layout, Deepanjalinagar
 Mysore Road, Bangalore-560026 
Languages Known 		: 	English, Kannada, Telugu and Hindi.
Passport Number			:	G4158699
Profile URL			: 	http://in.linkedin.com/in/ramyasharma
RAVI KANTH POGAKU

E-mail: ravipogaku@Gmail.com
Mobile:9945074347
SUMMARY:

· A Dedicated, Assertive and Qualified Technology Professional offering 7.6 years of total IT experience in design & development of  Mobile Applications and Games.
· Hands on Experience in architecting/developing mobile solutions in leading mobile platforms especially Android, RIM Blackberry, J2ME and J2ME Polish.
· Ability to define, analyze and document Enterprise Mobility Architecture.
· Hands on work experience in working with various clients, carriers and aggregators like AT&T, Sprint, Verizon, Vodafone UK, T-Mobile US, Three Australia, Cosmote Greece, PointCom Ukraine, Airtel India, O2, Motricity and VALIC.
· Expertise in Mobile VAS, Entertainment, Healthcare & Insurance domains.
·    Good understanding of Industry standard design patterns such as MVC etc. and good knowledge on REST/JSON and SOAP/XML.
·    Experience in On Device Portals(ODPs) & Browser based frame works.
· Hands on work experience in developing Solution Design, Estimates, development of UI widgets, Multilingual support, Code Optimization, JAR size reduction, Heap management and Presales activities.
· 2 years experience in Android, 2 years experience in BlackBerry and 4+ years experience in J2ME mobile application development.
· Good knowledge in Agile methodology and Scrum model.
· Knowledge on UML and modelling tools.
· Expertise in both Products and Services.
· Strong communication and interpersonal skills.
· Ability to learn new concepts quickly and adapts to new environment.
WORK PROFILE:

· Working in Mphasis Ltd, Bangalore as a Technical Architect from March 2011 to Present.
· Worked in Welldoc Software Pvt Ltd, Bangalore as a Technical Lead from Sep 2009 to Jan 2011.
· Worked in Aricent Technologies Ltd, Bangalore as a Senior Software Engineer from Jan 2008 to May 2009.
· Worked in Envio Networks India Pvt Ltd, Bangalore as a Software Engineer from Jun 2007 to Dec 2007.
· Worked in Com2us Corporation, Bangalore as a Developer from Aug 2004 to May 2007.
TECHNICAL PROFILE:

Operating Systems

: Android, Linux, Vx Works and Windows XP.
Languages


: Java 5, C and Perl.
Mobile Technologies

: J2ME, CLDC 1.0, CLDC 1.1, MIDP 1.0, MIDP 2.0




   J2ME Polish 2.0 & 2.1.4,
Android 2.3.3,
Android 3.0
Web Technologies

: Servlets, JSP and XML.
Web Server


: Tomcat 5.0
Database


: SQLite, My SQL and Oracle 8i
Version Controls

: Tortise SVN & Smart SVN

IDEs



: NetBeans 6.x, Eclipse 3.5, BlackBerry JDE and Jcreator 

Tools & Utilities

: SUN Wireless Tool Kit 2.5.2,
SonyEricsson, Sprint,  

                                           Nokia and Android Sdks.
QUALIFICATION:

          Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics & Communications Engg from IETE,

New Delhi.
KEY PROJECTS :
#1.
VALIC Mobile
Client – The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company(VALIC), US.
Duration: June 2011 to Apr 2012
VALIC is the leader in helping Americans plan for and enjoy a secure retirement.
It takes personal approach to retirement plans programs, offering customized solutions for individual as well as employer needs.
With the VALIC Mobile app, user can track their savings progress on the move.
After installation, user can launch the app and log in to their account to view -
Portfolio Summary, Plan summary, Transaction history, Fund inquiry, Personal performance, Savings gap analysis tool, Financial advisor contact information, Contact information for VALIC, Market updates.
Environment

Team Size

: 4
Hardware

: HTC Aria, Motorola Droid,Samsung Captivate & Samsung              Galaxy Tab 

Technologies

: Java, Android 2.1, Android 2.3.3,
JUnit & JMock
Tools & Utilities
: Eclipse Helios, Tortise SVN and Android SDK
Responsibilities

· Closely work with the Client in getting the requirements.
· Solution design, estimates and submission of the product.
· Managing the off shore team.
· Development and code review of this product.
· Involved in UI implementation, Networking Framework and Parser.
· Implemented unit tests cases using JUnit and JMock.
#2.
Diabetes Manager®

Client – VNSNY New York, Diabetes America and AT&T US.
Duration: Dec 2009 to Dec 2010

The DiabetesManager® (DM) system includes a mobile application for patients and web-based applications for patients and their healthcare providers as well as account directors.
The DM mobile application works as a virtual coach which helps in managing the diabetes of the user.
Patient can log their daily sugars, carbs intake and medication taken etc using the log book module.
Based on the data entered by the patient they will get the feed back coaching messages which are very crucial in managing the patient’s diabetes.
Using this app patient can also send messages to their HCP and can also receive messages from HCP with in the DM system.
The major advantage of this application is it will work both in online and offline mode.
Environment

Team Size

: 6
Hardware

: Nokia 6350, Sanyo 7050, RIM Blackberry 8900, 


  
  Blackberry 8350, Blackberry 8310 and Nexus One etc.                                

Technologies

: Java, J2ME, J2ME Polish and Android.
Tools & Utilities
: Sprint SDK 3.x, Sun WTK 2.5.2,
Blackberry JDE 4.5 & 4.6




   & Android SDK 2.1
Responsibilities

· Closely work with CTO and Clients in getting the requirements.
· Actively involved in design, development and code review of this product.
· Involved in Protocol design, implementation and managing the off shore team.
· Done the implementation of log book & survey modules.
· Implemented the Hebrew and Spanish editions of this product.
#3.
Smoking Cessation

Client – WellDoc Inc, US.
Duration: Sep 2009 to Dec 2009

The main purpose of this application is to help smokers in quitting their smoking habit.
This is useful to only those users who are ready to quit smoking but unable to do so due to various reasons.
Using this interactive application user can record their smoke, what causes them to smoke and what forces them to quit smoke.
User can also get in touch with their friends using the Quitting Community and can also learn all about smoking using Learning Library.
Environment

Team Size

: 1

Hardware

: Sanyo 7050 and Nexus One.
Technologies

: Java, J2ME, J2ME Polish and Android.
Tools & Utilities
: Sprint SDK 3.x, Sun WTK 2.5.2 and Android SDK 1.5
Responsibilities

· Involved in gathering the requirements and designing the product.
· Done the total implementation of the product and unit testing.
#4.
Celltop

Client – PointCom/MTS Ukraine and AllTel US.
Duration: Jan 2008 to May 2009


Celltop is a mobile client framework that simplifies mobile user access to next generation content, commerce and communication services from GSM and CDMA operators.
Celltop will contain small applications called cells, these cells can be embedded with Celltop or can be downloaded from the cell gallery server after launching the Celltop.
The Celltop framework is designed in such a way so that any third party developer can build these cells by using the SDK and APIs (CelltopML) provided by Celltop.
Environment
Team Size

: 12
Hardware

: Most of the MTS devices and RIM Blackberry 8700g, 


  
   Blackberry Curve and Blackberry Pearl.
Technologies

: Java, J2ME and CelltopML.
Tools & Utilities
: Cell Builder, Celltop Emulator and WTK 2.5.2
Responsibilities
· Involved in various modules of the Celltop framework.
· Part of Pre sales team which builds Celltop client demos as per their requirements.
· Handled a team as part various project assignments.
· Implemented multilingual support for Ukrainian, Russian and English languages.
· Involved in Ticker, Cell Builder, Build script and UIRenderer modules.
· Developed and ported Celltop BlackBerry version.
#5.
Envio Cast Mobile Music

Client – Verizon US, AT&T US, Sprint US and Airtel India.
Duration: Jun 2007 to Dec 2007


This application lets the user configure their hello tunes and interact with other members of the mobile music community.
This application has been designed in such 

a framework where its functionality is similar to a mobile browser.
Through this 

application user can able search hello tunes based on artist, album, tone name etc and can also invite friends to download this application to enable them to recommend tunes and give feed back.
Environment
Team Size

: 5

Hardware

: Most of the Verizon, AT&T, Sprint, Airtel devices and RIM 


   Blackberry 8700g, Curve and Pearl series devices.
Technologies

: Java, J2ME, ECML and Perl.
Tools & Utilities
: WTK 2.5, Sprint SDK, Sony, Samsung and Moto SDKs.
Responsibilities
· Involved in Client and Renderer part of coding and unit testing.
· Implemented RMS functionalities.
· Done the documentation of Client and Renderer modules.
#6.
Planet Puzzle
Client – AT&T, T-Mobile US and Cosmote Greece.
Duration: June 2006 to May 2007


This is one of the puzzle games of Com2us.
It consists of 3 games Sudoku, Kakuro and MoonSweeper with 2 modes and 3 different levels.
In story mode you have to complete a mission by solving these 3 puzzles and in Arcade mode you can select and play which you wish.
It has 3 modes easy, medium and hard.
It also has the feature of saving the game and you can continue the whenever you want.
Environment
Team Size

: 4
Hardware

: Most of the AT&T, T-Mobile US and Cosmote devices.
Technologies

: Java and J2ME

Tools & Utilities
: WTK 2.0, Sony, Samsung, Moto SDKs and Device Weaver.
Responsibilities
· Involved in Design and Development.
· Worked as a Lead developer of the game.
· Developed Reference builds for all Small, Medium, Large and QVGA mobile devices.
· Implemented manual save, auto save and all RMS related operations.
#7.
Device Weaver

Client – Com2us Corporation, Korea.
Duration: June 2006 to May 2007


The objective of this project is to develop a web based tool which would help in generating application/games which can used for different  devices under various carriers with their specification included by the tool depending on the device specification which has to be added to the database maintained by the tool.
The objective of the tool is to reduce the time for porting the same application to different devices.
Environment

Team Size

: 4

Technologies

: JSP, JDBC, Weblogic, Oracle 8i and MIDP 2.O.
Tools & Utilities
: WTK 2.0, Nokia UI, Sony Ericsson, Samsung and Motorola SDKs.
Responsibilities

· Developed the web user interface tool.
· Integrated the device level fixes that are part of various device issues across multiple devices of various make and model.
#8.
Virus





               

Client – Three UK.
Duration: June 2005 to May 2006

 It’s a first action horror game of Com2us.
In this you a play a scientist in the near future trapped in a large bio-research facility swarming with the undead.
As you wander the showdy corridors and rooms, defend yourself from the undead with pipes, knives, handguns and machine guns.
You will also solve puzzles as you move through the large, open ended levels of virus.
Environment
Team Size

: 4

Hardware

: Most of the Three UK devices.
Technologies

: Java and J2ME

Tools & Utilities
: WTK 2.0, SonyEricsson, Samsung and Moto SDKs.
Responsibilities

· Involved in Reference build generation of QVGA devices.
· Implemented Touch Screen Technique for Motorola A1000.
· Done all the key mappings and key controls coding.
· Involved in Code Optimization for low Heap and low Jar devices.
#9.
Agassi Tennis Melbourne 2006.
Client – Three Australia and Vodafone UK.
Duration: June 2005 to May 2006 


This popular sport game is closely modeled around the grand slam tournament structure.
Play as Andre Agassi in this tournament on your mobile for in depth tennis experience.
It features full tournament mode and quick match mode with three difficulty levels.
It also contains special features like live broadcast feel, ball speedometer and ball boys.
Learn how to best utilize your groundstrokes, slices, lobs and court positioning in your quest for championship.
Environment

Team Size

: 4
Hardware

: Most of the Vodafone UK and Three Australia devices.
Technologies

: Java and J2ME
Tools & Utilities
: WTK 2.0, Sony Ericsson and Moto SDKs.
Responsibilities

· Major role in porting to various devices like LG U8120, Sharp SH902, Sony S700, Motorola E1000, Samsung D500, E700, E710 etc.
· Implemented call Handling.
· Done all the UI coding.
#10.
Mini Game Pack

Client – AT&T US & T-Mobile US.
Duration: Aug 2004 to Apr 2005

This is the beautiful one button game consisting of 7 great games.
Mini Game Pack challenges players to running, jumping, racing, smashing, skipping, driving and dodging.
The game features 9 different characters each of who have different abilities to tackle the gauntlet of 7 games.
This is the game perfect for mobiles giving unlimited entertainment.
Environment

Team Size

: 4

Hardware

: Most of the AT&T & T-Mobile US devices.
Technologies

: Java and J2ME

Tools & Utilities
: WTK 2.0, Sony Ericssion and Moto SDKs.
Responsibilities

· Involved in code optimization and heap management for Nokia UI40.
· Took active part in Reference build generation for UI 40 series.
· Involved in porting for other devices.
Apart from this worked on porting of various other games like WereWolf, Com2us Bowling, Dragonfire, Raiden and Holiday Game Pack.
#372, Nagavarapalaya




         Mobile: +919739083131                                    

Near Masjid Road,





         Mail id:sahajankhan@gmail.com

C V Raman Nagar, Bangalore -560093


         
SAHAJAN KHAN
PROFILE

Seeking challenging and rewarding position as a lead engineer with an organization that can utilize my skills and experience and allow me to continue developing my technical & leadership skills .
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 

A dynamic IT professional with 5.8 years of experience in mobile solution design, development, testing & maintenance .
Presently associated with Sasken Communication Technologies Limited, Bangalore as Senior Software Engineer working on Android platform .
Adept in end-to-end development of software products from requirement analysis to system study, designing, coding testing, de-bugging, documentation and implementation .
Excellent communication, leadership and interpersonal skills with proven abilities in resolving complex software / application related issues.
Acknowledged with rewards and recognitions throughout the professional career for the ability to explore unknown territories and delivering the results beyond expectation.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

· Overall 5.8 years of experience in end-to-end mobile solution design & development.
· 4 years of solid experience on Android application & Framework development.
· Proficient in Android, Java & J2ME/MIDP.
· Good knowledge of android architectures and its framework.
· In-depth knowledge of Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.
· Having good exposure to mobile device management(MDM), enterprise mobility, Unified communication.
· Hands on expertise on IPhone application development.
· Hands on expertise on IBM Workslight, Sencha Touch etc.
Technical Skills
       

	SKILL TYPE
	SKILL NAME

	LANGUAGE
	JAVA, J2ME, C++, Objective C

	PLATFORMS
	Android, iOS, Linux

	IDE & TOOLS
	Eclipse 3.4/3.5/3.6,
Android SDK 1.6/2.0/2.1/2.2/4.0,Net
Beans Mobility 6.0.1, XCode, JCreator, WTK -2.2, Git, Gerrit, SVN,UML


Awards & Recognitions

  Honoured with:-
· Team of the Quarter Award (Sasken) in Q1 of FY 2011-12 for ensuring customer delight by delivery high quality performance in Enterprise Security Manger Project.
· Received multiple SPOT Award for individual contribution in Enterprise Security Manger Project.
· Champions Award (Sasken) for the successful execution of the Enterprise Security Manger Project on Android Platform

· Received the Best Performer award (Zylog) for execution, co-ordination and Project Tracking of Bank.Companion Project.
· Received many Global Thanks award (Zylog) from US partners and peers

Employment Scan

	TENURE
	ORGANIZATION
	DESIGNATION

	Since Dec-10
	SASKEN Communications, Bangalore
	Senior Software Engineer

	Aug-08 to Dec-10
	Zylog Systems Limited , Chennai
	Senior Software Developer

	Jan-07 to Aug-08
	Rapidsoft Technologies Gurgaon
	Software Developer


Project Experience 

Title:
SDA-Tool (Short Data Application Tool)

Role:

Technical Lead

Category:
Android Application/Framework development


Platform:
Honeycomb 3.2/Jelly Beans 4.1
     Language:
Java, XML UML
     Period:

Since August-12

Description:
The application is design to provide the flexibility to the TETRA terminal user/consumer/supplier to generate SDA using a interactive android application.
The tool provides rich set of UI component.&
drag n drop facility.
Using the component user can easily create SDA form on his android powered tablets and generate the XML containing SDA layout schema and backend form property.
The Tool generates the XML schema which can be directly transferred to a TETRA terminal and the terminal can easily create the form and enable the user to create new SDA’s.
Responsibilities: Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Design, Development, Integration and Testing activities.
Project Experience 

Title:
Enterprise security Manager/Mobile Device Management Framework

Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
Android Framework development


Platform:
Android Froyo (2.2), Ice Cream Sandwich (4.0.3)
Language:
Java, C++

     Period:

Dec-10 – July 12  
Description:
Designed to provide flexibility to enterprise customers for stringent security requirements – by providing certain controls/policy settings intended to enable /disable critical functionalities/applications such as messaging, restriction of downloadable market applications and usage of certain peripherals like extended memory/SD card, USB, camera, Bluetooth, GPS and encryption of file system etc.
These policy settings would be applied on the device by administrators within the enterprises provide enhancements to the security API’s in Android Froyo2.2 platform.
The security administration client application residing on the device would make use of the enhanced security API’s to enable/disable critical functionalities and usage of peripherals in the device.
Responsibilities: Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Design, Development, Integration and Testing activities.
Title:
MOTA (Managed over The Air upgrade of Image) & Backup of User Data

Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
Android framework development


Platform:
Android Froyo (2.2).
Language:
Java, C++

     Period:

August 11- June 12
Description:
MOTA provides additional security and managed OTA process on Device.
The MOTA update process utilizes the current OTA process for consumer devices and adds enterprise management capabilities to the current OTA process to make it manageable by the customer’s IT department and it also add security infrastructure around the update process.
The MOTA service also provides support for backing up user data to SD-card before starting a MOTA.
The backup is triggered by the admin client using MDM framework and the user e.g.:- Contacts, Call Logs, SMS, application etc. will be backed up to the SD-Card automatically.
Responsibilities: Requirement Collection, Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Design, leading the Development, Integration and Testing activities, and customer interfacing.
Title:
CPA Services (Client Pass-through Authentication Service)

Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
Android application development


Platform:
Android Froyo (2.2).
Language:
Java

     Period:

2 Months
Description:
A secured application service layer providing abstraction to Client application using Secured Mobile Device Management Framework.
The CPAS provides secured client authentication and communication channel to apply policies on the device.
The CPAS is designed in such a way that it can support multiple MDM Application, providing access to the Device management API’s, they are currently registered for.
Responsibilities: Requirement Collection, Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Design, leading the      Development, Integration and Testing activities, and customer interfacing.
Title:
DevicePolicyManger Extension

Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
Android Framework development


Platform:
Android Froyo (2.2).
Language:
Java, C++

     Period:

2 Months
Description:
Designed and developed a complete extension to the existing Device Policy Management provided in Android Froyo 2.2.The enhancement leverages the admin client to enforce stricter password policies to be applied on the Device in an Enterprise Environment.
The existing framework and supporting system application has been modified to provide the flexibility of using both default DPM functionalities and modified DPMExtn as per requirement.
Responsibilities: Requirement Collection, Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Design, leading the      Development, Integration and Testing activities, and customer interfacing.
Title:
Mobile IPTV


Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
Android application


Platform:
Windows, Google Android SDK 2.0, Java, VLC LAN, Darwin streaming server.
Description:
Mobile IPTV is an android native application which implements the IPTV Anywhere concept using deployments of wireless signals e.g.
– WLAN, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max inside walled garden network.
The Mobile IPTV Application deploys the following major points 

· Installing Streaming server i.e. - installing & configuring VLC LAN server.
· Providing Live Video to the streaming server and streaming the live content using UDP multicast protocol using wifi.
· Client implements UDP socket to consume UDP data grams in the mobile clients.
· Receiving multiple Multicast videos data in the application.
Responsibilities: Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing activities.
Title:
Bank.Companion 


Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
Android application


Platform:
Windows, Google Android SDK 2.0, Java, SSL.
Description:
Bank.Companion combines mobile Internet delivery service that will interface with user’s bank's existing core system, enabling customers to enjoy wireless banking transactions and information services.
Built on WTLS (Wireless Transport Layer Security) and SSL (Secured Sockets Layer), Bank.Companion’s transaction services are dependable and fully secure.
Bank.Companion can be used virtually for all users’ banking needs.
Some of the most common services are: 

· Bill Payment Service-Allows a customer to pay his her utility bills conveniently over the phone.
· Transaction Services - Allows account to account transfers, Balance Enquiry, Transaction History etc.

· Request Services - Stop payment, statement of account, etc.

· Alerts for Periodic deposits such as pay checks, Pre-set balance limits, overdraft usage

· ATM / Branch locator.
Responsibilities: Design, Development, Coding, Integration and Unit Testing activities.
Title:

FieldPower 


Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
Android application


Platform:
Windows, Google Android SDK 1.5/2.0,
Java
Description:
Mobile field service allows the Fieldpower job data be available for the mobile field force, allowing mobile field resources to receive and send information about the work they are scheduled to do.
Two way feedback ensure that when changes occur, everyone is informed.
· Instant receiving of service call information to mobile devices.
· Real-time status feedback from field to FieldPower.
· Offline support - automatic connecting and reconnecting as users move in and out of cell coverage areas, with storage of work data on mobile device.
· Time tracking and field service mobility reporting.
· Job acceptance and rejections status update.
· Displaying Field Location and navigation support.
Responsibilities: Design, Development, Coding, Integration and Unit Testing activities.
Title:

iVARS 


Role:

Software Engineer


Category:
Android application


Platform:
Windows, Google Android SDK 1.5/2.0,
Java
Description:
iVARS, an acronym of insured Vehicle Accident Recovery System, is a mobile client application designed and developed to provide complete end-to-end solution for recovery operations.
It manages the chain of business process flow between the insurer, recovery agency and recovery agent.
iVARS is a next generation mobile solution has advanced features of facilitating the recovery operators to capture the images of the wrecked vehicle, incident spots, etc and update in the database of the web application installed at the recovery agency, thus enabling the insurers and recovery agents providing an enhanced customer service and added business value.
Responsibilities: Design, Development, Coding and Unit Testing activities.
Title:
Voice2Dox


Role:

Senior Software Engineer


Category:
iPhone application


Platform:
Macintosh, iPhone SDK 2.2, Cocoa Touch, Objective C

Description:
It’s an enterprise iPhone native application for medical practitioner, which extends the functionality of already available web and desktop application to mobile platform.
It allows the Medical Physician to dictate the case of the patient and upload the recorded audio file to the web server with respected to the patient information.
Physician can view the work list in a browser based application and launch the voice2dox native application installed in Android.
It allows the Physician to record the dictation of the patient in both audio and text format.
Responsibilities: Design, Development, Coding and Unit Testing activities.
Title:

CRM – Mobile


Role:

Software Engineer

Category:
Android Application
Platform:
Windows, Google Android 1.5 SDK

Description:
This project gives your workforce a significant advantage—instant access to Microsoft Dynamics CRM information anywhere, anytime using CRM Mobile — on the road, between meetings, even on airplanes.
Delivering a rich user experience, it drives overall usage of your CRM system by enabling remote access for your sales, service and management teams.
Microsoft Dynamics Mobile CRM solutions enables you to instantly access mission critical data such as account cases, campaigns, opportunities and call reports, anytime, anywhere, giving you immediate wireless access to your Microsoft Dynamics when you’re away from the organizations.
Responsibilities: Design, Development, Coding and Unit Testing activities.
Title:            
GETFUGU 

Role:            
Software Engineer - Analysis, Feature   Enhancement, Testing.
Category:     
Development

Platform:      
J2ME platform, with MIDP2, CLDC 1.0 using WTK 2.2, Netbeans Mobility

                   
6.0.1, Sprint WTK 3.3, Blackberry JDE 4.3.0
Description:   The Mobile client is designed to download ads available at the server.
This is populated by the ads uploaded by the agency/individual who   wants to market their product through the ad.
The client application is designed to auto detect the ads available at the server.
The client application will play the ad (videos downloaded from the server using MMAPI) available on the server and download to the handset.
User will be credited with respect to number of ads played on his mobile.
User will be rewarded after he/she gain some standard amount of credit in his/her account.
There will be option to Play the ad or save the ad on the device.
Responsibilities: Coding & Testing.
Title:            
MERAGANA (MOBILE KARAOKE)

Role:            
Software Engineer - Analysis, Documentation, Porting, Feature

                   
Enhancement, Testing.
Category:     
MIDP Application Development

Platform:      
J2ME platform, with MIDP2, Net beans Mobility 6.0.1                    

Description: 

Downloads karaoke files from the server and plays it on the mobile (Synchronizing Lyrics text with the current song played) with additional features like:

· Search song from a large database of song.
· Create your favorite play list on the server.
· Advanced Pause, play and replay the karaoke application.
· Advanced Encryption methodology, for better data security.
· Large support of different MIME types supported by different handsets.
· Excellent graphical Interface for better look and feel.
Responsibilities: Coding & Testing.
Title:            
JamNOW - Group Chat 

Role:           
Junior Software Engineer

                   
Enhancement, Testing.
Category:     
Development, 

Platform:      
Linux, C++

Description:  
This project aims at providing the group chat and one to one chat using Jabber server (XMPP protocol).
XMPP was designed for real-time communication, which powers a wide range of applications including instant messaging, presence, media negotiation, white boarding, collaboration, lightweight middleware, content syndication, EDI, RPC and generalized XML routing.
Responsibilities: Coding & Testing.
Academics

· B Tech from Institute of Technical Education & Research, BPUT, Odisha Passed in the year 2006.
Personal Detail 

Father’s Name: Late Ramjan Khan

DOB: 29-April-1984

Nationality: Indian

Gender: Male
Languages Known: English, Hindi, and Oriya

Sakthivel  K G
Mobile: +91-98458 21236

Email: samratsakthi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: http://in.linkedin.com/in/sakthivelkg
Summary
· Overall  6+  years of experience in Software Development
· Over 5+ years of experience in Mobile Application development on J2ME, Android
· Over 1 year of Offshore experience at client location Huawei Technologies, Bangalore
· Basic knowledge on Android Middleware Customization
· Working knowledge on SIP/VOIP RFC – 3261
· Experience in Agile Methodology Scrum
· Excellent communication, interpersonal skills and a strong commitment towards Customer Satisfaction.
Career Summary


Nov 2006 – Current

:
Aricent Group, Bangalore
Key Technologies

Platforms


:
Windows, Solaris, Linux
Programming Languages

:
C, C++, Java
Mobile Platforms

:
Android, J2ME
Web Servers


:
Apache Tomcat6.0
Tools



:
Eclipse, DDMS, View Hierarchy, ADB, Eclipse MAT, 

Sqliteman, XML Spy, Klockworks 

Web Technologies

:
XML, DTD
Configuration Management
:
SVN, Tortoise CVS
Defect Management tools
:
JIRA, BugZilla
Education


2000 – 2004

B.E - Computer Science and Engineering




Periyar University, India
Factory Navigation





                    Oct 2012 – Till date

This smart phone application is intended for the factory operators who perform inspection rounds on a plant tour to measure the gas sensor readings and reports back to the location manager or the control room in case of any untoward incidents like gas leakage, gas sensor readings going above or below the stipulated threshold values.
This smart phone application would be a single solution for multiple safety devices like portable gas detectors, walkie-talkie, etc., because it is equipped with alarm, voice and video call facilities.
Client


:
Honeywell
Target Platform

:
Android 4.0
Location


:
Bangalore

Process followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]

Team Size

:
5
Role: Senior Software Engineer
Responsibilities:
· Overall Estimation for the application

· Implementation of speech to text application for Indian accent
· Implementation of Translucent layout with slide-in/slide-out animation

· Designing and implementation of loading tiled set of map images
· Explore sample applications which does Panoramic stitching and viewing

· Analysis and enhancement to open source library PanoramaGL which does spherical panoramic rendering.
Environment: Java, Android ICS 4.0
VideoCanvas






                    May 2012 – Sep 2012

This is a Multi-Video player Gallery application for Tablet where multiple videos will be playing simultaneously in muted form and user will be able to pan those videos across the screen.
A mini-map representation is also displayed along with the videos which helps the user to locate his current location in the complete virtual canvas boundary.
User can tap on any video which will change the mode of that video to Fullscreen where audio will be enabled.
Client


:
Qualcomm
Target Platform

:
Android 4.0
Location


:
Bangalore

Process followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]

Team Size

:
4
Role: Team Lead
Responsibilities:
· Requirements analysis, design, estimation for Multiview & Gallery mode
· Task breakup to team members and release responsibilities.
· Design and Implementation of Multiview player

· Integration of Gallery mode and Multiview player
· Reading the video files from phone memory and sdcard

· State handling while changing the video to full screen & viceversa.
Environment: Java, Android ICS 4.0
SayTweet







    Mar 2012 – Apr 2012

This is a voice based twitter application where user interaction happens through predefined commands.
The application works accordingly based on the command spoken by the user.
The Dragon NaturallySpeaking software developer kit (SDK) is used to add speech recognition capabilities.
Target Platform

:
Android 2.1
Location


:
Bangalore

Process followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]

Team Size

:
5
Role: Team Lead
Responsibilities:
· Task allocation to team members and release responsibilities.
· Designing and implementation of fetching the tweets based on the user account

· Design and implementation of retrieving the friends list based on user account

· Search a user based on the name

· Sending direct messages to the user
· State handling during sending message
· Unit testing of the module
Environment: Java, Android 2.1, Eclipse, SVN
Email







                    Dec 2011 – Feb 2012

As part of Verizon’s LTE phone the existing features in Email application from Gingerbread like OOF, GAL are ported to IceCream Sandwich.
The distinct feature in this application is the UI and Service both is separated and is different apk’s.
Client


:
Verizon
Target Platform

:
Android 4.0
Location


:
Huawei Technologies India Private Limited, Bangalore

Process followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]

Team Size

:
8
Role: Senior Software Engineer

Responsibilities:
· Porting of Out of Office(OOF) feature from Gingerbread to IceCream Sandwich using AIDL
· Porting of Global Address List GAL feature from Gingerbread to IceCream Sandwich using AIDL
· Unit testing of the module
Environment: Java, Android IceCream Sandwich, Exchange server 2010, Eclipse, SVN, JIRA
Calendar







   Mar 2011 – Nov 2011

The default android applications such as Calendar, Email and Contacts are enhanced as part of this phase2 development.
The features include retrieving Global Address List (GAL) contacts and implementation of redesigned GAL UI to accommodate large query as part of retrieving contacts.
The Out Of Office feature is also implemented in Email as part of this development.
Client


:
AT & T

Target Platform

:
Android 2.3

Location


:
Huawei Technologies India Private Limited, Bangalore

Process followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]

Team Size

:
7

Role: Senior Software Engineer

Responsibilities:
· Implemented Optional guests attendees feature for Exchange Accounts as part of new event creation
· Enhanced the Guests, Optional guests attendees feature so that user can fetch contacts from the contacts application as part of new event creation
· Implementation of redesigned GAL UI which will fetch maximum 100 contacts
· Enhanced the Calendar to support UTF-8 chars as part of Inter-Operability testing while importing calendar events
· Build release to testing team
· Bug fixing

Environment: Java, Android Gingerbread 2.3, Exchange Server 2007, Eclipse, SVN, JIRA
Tesla








    Jan 2010 – Feb 2011

Tesla has the most personal address book available, bringing together all of the contacts, status messages, comments from the mobile phone, social networks and other internet accounts.
It works across a range of mobile phones and synchs automatically with the linked accounts.
Client


:
Vodafone

UI Design

:
Frog Design

Target Platform

:
Android 2.2
Location


:
Bangalore, Gurgoan, Germany
Process followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]
Team Size

:
40
URL


:
http://vodafone360.com/
Role: Senior Software Engineer

Responsibilities:
· Implemented Group Selector module
· Enhanced the PeoplePicker module

· Performance and Memory monitoring tools

· Launching Tesla at bootup time
· Bug fixing

Environment: Java, Android SDK 2.2, Eclipse, SVN, Eclipse MAT, EMMA Code Coverage
LiteGames







   Jan 2009 – Dec 2009

Litegames, a mobile gaming solution will allow the user to play any j2me games online through the handset/mobile.
The solution is a TCP/IP based Socket programming client-server communication which removes the need to download any game on the device hosted on operator’s deck online.
Client


:
Comviva

Location


:
Bangalore

Operator Carrier

:
Idea
Process Followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]

Team Size

:
15
URL


:
http://www.medianama.com/2010/02/223-mwc-2010-comviva-
launches-online-gaming-solution-for-mobile/
Role: Senior Software Engineer

Responsibilities:
· Ownership from design to implementation of defaultsuite module.
· Porting of defaultsuite to multiple resolutions[240x320,176x220,128x128,128x160]
· Implementation of feature enhancements like Ticker, dialog box.
· Involved in bug fixing and optimization.
Environment: C, Socket Programming, Linux, PhoneME, J2ME, JSON
Key Achievement:

Honoured with a team award for extraordinary dedication, innovation and stretching beyond the call of duty to provide significant customer value for the development & deployment of LiteGames, an Online Gaming Solution in Idea Network

Celltop – Client & SDK






 Oct 2007 – Dec 2008
Celltop is an extensible generic platform for deploying mobile content, commerce, and data services.
Users can add new capabilities to celltop by downloading and installing “Cells” which are mini-applications that run within the celltop environment.
Celltop controls the rendering, adding or deleting cells and the overall look and feel of the celltop environment.
Client


:
Pointcom

Operator Carrier

:
MTS, South Africa

Location


:
Ukraine, Bangalore

Process Followed

:
Agile methodology [Scrum]

Team Size

:
40

URL


:
http://www.aricent.com/Products/CelltopOnDevicePortal.aspx
Role: Software Engineer
Responsibilities:

· XML DOM-Parser porting from C++ to Java.
· Parser enhancement to construct DOM tree based on the given key and value pair.
· Implemented the debugging mechanism called ‘user logging’ from design to implementation.
The mechanism includes logging in a ‘Form’, ‘RMS’ and ‘File Storage’ [JSR 75].
· Implemented the Voice Call and SMS [JSR 120] feature.
· Handled the entire build release process from development team to testing team.
· Mentored the Ukraine team for Cell development and testing.
Environment: J2ME, Eclipse, WTK 2.5.2,
Java, XML

Key Achievement:

Honoured with a team award for the development & deployment of Pointcom 1.0 release of Celltop in MTS Network
B2BUA






 

   Dec 2006 – Sep 2007
A Back-to-Back User Agent (B2BUA) is a logical entity that receives a request and processes it as a User Agent Server (UAS).
In order to determine how the request should be answered, it acts as a User Agent Client (UAC) and generates requests.
Unlike a proxy server, it maintains dialog state and must participate in all requests sent on the dialogs it has established.
Since it is a concatenation of a UAC and UAS, no explicit definitions are needed for its behavior.
Client


:
Nortel
Location


:
Bangalore

Team Size

:
16
Role: Software Developer
Responsibilities:

· Study of RFC-3261 and basics of SIP [VOIP Protocol], VxWorks.
· Porting of B2B to VxWorks RTOS.
· Porting of B2B to Windows platform
· Testing of UTP/QTP test cases
· Involved in execution of automation test suite.
Environment: VOIP/SIP, C++, VxWorks 5.5.1,
SBCPowerQUICCII board, Solaris, Windows, Klocworks, Tornado 2.2.1, Cygwin, CVS

Sathishchandra Bhandary P 

	Master of Computer Applications

Email :  sathish.mbail@gmail.com
Passport No : G3684527
Date of Birth: 25th May 1982

Male, Single
	Mob: 9902099608

Address:

#50, 2nd Cross,1st Main, Bethel Nagar
KodegeHalli Main Road
KR Puram
Bangalore


CAREER OBJECIVE
To work in a challenging Software Development environment where I can   utilizes my skills and abilities to meet the challenges in a highly competitive environment and offers ample learning opportunities.
RESUME SUMMARY

· 5+ Years of total IT experience

· SCJP certified developer

· Experience in product design, implementation, and unit testing.
· 2+ years of Experience in android mobile application development

· Expertise in Core Java, J2EE ,Web Services and Frameworks such as JSF, Struts, Hibernate and Spring
· Expertise in Agile and Water fall model as SDLC.
TECHNICAL SKILL SET
	Programming languages 
	Core Java, C++(Basics)

	RDBMS
	MySQL, Oracle 8i,JDBC

	Operating Systems
	Windows Environment, Red Hat Linux, Unix and Mac OS, Android Mobile OS

	Internet Technologies
	 JSP/Servlets,HTML

	Scripting Languages
	Unix shell scripting

	Tolls Used
	Eclipse, NetBeans, WebLogic

	Frameworks
	JSF(Java Server Faces),Struts,Hibernate,Spring


EXPERIENCE SUMMARY
1. Working Motorola Mobility as Senior Software Engineer(May.2011-Till
date)
2. Working MGL, Bangalore(deputed Motorola ) as Senior Software Engineer(October.2010-April
2011)
3. Working Mphasis, an HP Company, Mangalore as Senior Software Engineer(March.2010-October
2010)

4. Working with Robosoft Technologies Pvt.
Ltd ,Udupi as Software Engineer(Jan.2007-March.2010)
1) Media Player –Multimedia social networking application

 
Connected Media Player is a native multimedia browsing and playback app threaded with web and social network connectivity.
It provides live media context, immersive discovery and quick communication about and through social media
· Team Size : 10
· Technology used : Android SDK and Framework 2.2, Core Java, SqlLite
· SDLC methodology used : Agile

Responsibilities included:
· Implementation feature and enhancement.
· Implementing modules such as MediaPlayer,Sharing,Artist editorial modules
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan and Integration 
· Attending meeting and involving in team discussion
2)Secure Password Manager(SplashData):

              SplashData is an android application that stores secure information such as bank details, pan card details of the user in android device.
It will secure the user data with 256 bits blowfish encryption and data will be in safe if the handheld lost or stolen.
· Team Size : 4
· Technology used : Android SDK and Framework 1.5, Core Java, SqlLite
· SDLC methodology used : Agile

Responsibilities included:
· Design and implementation.
· Implementing modules such as login, maintaining session, adding and editing  the details , listing, grouping, searching the detail, synching the data with desktop
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan and Integration 
3)Messaging Application(ShoutOut):

              ShoutOut is a complete messaging android application with voice dictation.
While composing the message it will convert the voice to  text by communicating with the server.
Speak text messages or update the status on Facebook and Twitter, and see the results in seconds
· Team Size : 4
· Technology used : Android SDK and Framework 1.5, Core Java, SqlLite
· SDLC methodology used : Agile

Responsibilities included:
· Design and implementation.
· Implementing  the modules such as registration, voice training, compose message, recording voice, communicating with the server to covert voice to text
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan and Integration 
· Preparing Build notes 
4)Blog Reader(iSites):

              Blog Reader is an android application which will read the updates from the blog or news site and display it in four view home, categories, favorites and settings.
User can share the article through email, twitter and facebook.
Integrated with Admob to display location based ads.
This application is customized around 300 applications.
· Team Size : 2
· Technology used : Android SDK and Framework 2.0,Core Java
· SDLC methodology used : Agile

Responsibilities included:
· Design and implementation.
· Implementing the module such as displaying blog, integrating with email, twitter and facebook  for sharing the article.
Admob integration to display ads
· Customizing the application any blog sites
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan and Integration 
· Preparing Build notes 
5) Healthcare Payer System(HPS):

HPS is an next generation of EDS healthcare administration platform designed to meet today’s needs of customer.
It is built upon service oriented architecture (SOA), stressing easy of use and utilizing a leveraged sets of processing services to support either commercial government healthcare payers.
It includes features such as Member Management, Provider Management, Benefit Plan Administration, Premium billing and Account Receivable, Reporting and Correspondence Generation, Claim Adjudication, Care Management, Case Management, Pricing Management, Claims Payable, Customer Service Interaction, Other Insurance Information Maintenance, Electronic Data Management System, Member and Provider Service Portal.
· Team Size : 60
· Technology used : Web Service, Oracle ADF, Spring and IBatis
· SDLC methodology used : Agile

· Client:USGS

Responsibilities included:
· Design and implementation.
· Developing Web Services and spring configuration file
· Developing classes as per class diagram and sequence  diagram
· Coordinating between the product management and team members during implementation phase 

· Developing junit test cases 
6) Asset Management and Tracking System:


Asset Management and tracking System is a Web-based application that is used to track/ identify the hardware and software assets assigned to the user.
It is also used to track the electrical and non-electrical assets and what changes have been made to them.
Searches and reports can be run on assets as well

· Team Size : 15
· Technology used : JSP, Servlet,Core Java JSF ,Hibernate
· SDLC methodology used : Waterfall

Responsibilities included:
· Feasibility study and SRS preparation and review.
· Design and implementation.
· Implementing the module such as Adding assets, viewing assets details, managing asset costs ,insurance and warranty, selling assets,debonding and re-exporting assets,tracking asset repair and creating reports
·  Coordinating between the product management and team members during design and implementation phase 
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan
7)  Project Management and Tracking Tool 
Project Management and Tracking Tool is a web-based application, which will have a tracker to track the defects, tasks, change requests that may arise, and a project management tool.
· Team Size : 10
· Technology used : JSP, Servlet, Core Java, JSF and  JDBC

· SDLC methodology used : Agile
Responsibilities included:
· Feasibility study and SRS preparation and review.
· Implementing module such as adding and listing artifacts ,File  Sharing ,Time Entry and discussion Forum
· Coordinating between the product management and team members during design and implementation phase 
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan
8)  Recruitment Management System[RMS]:

RMS is a Web-based application, which enables the user to manage the recruitment process very effectively.
Using RMS, HR personnel can create the recruitment drives, manage panelists, manage/ run written tests, take the interviews, and monitor the status of recruitment at any instant of time.
There is a provision to transfer the selected candidates to the Human Resource Management System

· Team Size : 10
· Technology used : JSP, Servlet, Core Java, JSF and  JDBC

· SDLC methodology used : Waterfall

Responsibilities included:
· Analyzing and reviewing the requirements
· Implementing HR Interview, Question Bank, Reports, Mobile Server loading and synching, Transfer to HRMS module
· R and D activities prior to actual development
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan
9)  Student Life Cycle Management:

SLCM  is a web-based application, which can be used in any educational institution for its office administration and student life cycle management.
The target institutions include primary and high schools, PU and Degree colleges and even engineering colleges .It contains module such as Admission, performance, Staff Details, Alumni details, Scholarships, user management, communication and web module
· Team Size : 12
· Technology used : JSP, Servlet and  JDBC

· SDLC methodology used : Agile

Responsibilities included:
· Analyzing and reviewing the requirements
· Implementing Performance module such as marks entry, marks report, generating marks card
· Preparing and executing Unit test plan
EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION

· M.S Software System[Work Integrated Learning Programmes], 6.33CGPA  from Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani(BITS)  during 2011

· Master of Computer Applications, FIRST Class[69.2%]
from Mangalore University during 2005

EXTRA CURRICULAR  ACTIVITIES 
1. Certificates and Awards

· Sun Certified programmer for the Java Platform, Standard Edition 6 on March 28,2009
Areas Of Interest:  OOP Concepts ,Web Application and Frameworks, Design Patterns ,and Web services

Languages Known: English, Hindi, Kannada, Tulu.
I hereby declare that the data furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.
(Sathishchandra Bhandary)


Career Objective:  To use my skills, experience and adaptability to obtain a systems administration, engineering or programming position where I am constantly challenged.
My greatest strength is my ability to walk into a new environment and be functional immediately.
I am quick to learn and adapt to new situations, configurations and technologies.
Total 3.8 years of Experience on Mobile Application Development.
Employment History:
Hibiscus Technology Solution, J P Nagar 6th Phase, Bangalore.
Jan 2010 to Present
Senior Software Engineer, Permanent Position
 
· Started as an Software Engineer 
· Started working on one of the milestone project of HTS , The MTV Colbert Report
· Completed 6 projects during Jan 2011 to Present
· Handling client calls, Handling Design docs and handling team was one of the key role I played after Aug 2011 onwards
· Worked with few key clients like CGI, Mphasis, Symphony and Teleca etc.
· Handling team of 4 developers

3GBITS Communication, Karthik Nagar, Marathalli Bangalore.
July 2008 to Dec 2009
Associate Software Engineer, Permanent Position
 
· Started as an Associate Software Engineer Trainee
· Training was on Google Contact APIs on Java/JSP
· Started working as a J2me programmer from June 2008
· Nov 2009 Started working on Google Android, started with 1.5 version
· Key Projects was EkClick Automated home solution, EkClick Genie online food ordering system, EkClick Vista, Location Based advertisement.
Technology

	Language
	Java, C

	Operating System
	Windows, Linux

	Technology
	Android, Blackberry, J2ME

	IDE
	Eclipse, Moto Dev Studio, Net-beans, VistaMax

	Tools
	Android SDK 1.5 and Above, WTK 2.5.2,
RIM 4.0 above

	Database 
	Android – SQLite, Blackberry SQLite

	External APIs
	ZXING 1.1 , Google Checkout, PayPal, Apache mime etc



Projects

1.   Project Title 		Sharp – The Wrist Band 
      Technology		Google Android 2.1 and Above
      Team Size			1
      APIs			Android In-built APIs
      Duration			January 2012 – Feb 2012
      Client			Mphasis/Sharp
      Description	Application was divided into 4 separate module, first 3 module i.e. profit, non-profit, stocks basically shows feeds in mosaic format and a sms-ing module which  allow user to show custom message in mosaic view
      Role and Responsibility	Development, implementation, CR/ER handling and calls.
Market Link 	It was a wrist band app, developed for sharp for showing demo in CSE Jan-2012

2.   Project Title 		RSA Canada
      Technology		Google Android 2.1 and Above
      Team Size			2
      APIs			Location APIs, Google Map APIs, Contact Contract APIs etc.
      Duration			August 2011 – January 2012
      Client			CGI/RSA Canada
      Description	RSA Canada was an Insurance Claim app developed for IOS android and Blackberry.
Application was divided into 9 Separate modules namely RSA Claim, Broker, Flashlight, Accident Checklist, Emergency, Auto Repair Shop, Our Products, Get Me there and About US respectively.
RSA Claim was used to claim the insurance if any accident happens, we were sending all user data to Restful server and we were allowing user to upload max 4 photos of injuries and accident.
Brokers was use to search broker based on user input, Brokers and Auto repair shop was almost identical user was allowed to search brokers and Auto repair based on 3 selection.
1) based on Current Location, 2) based on Search location – user can enter a complete address to search a broker which was then populated on Google map and 3) Full list- it was populating complete list on to a list view.
Flashlight option can turn your LED light into torch, Accident Checklist to display what precaution should be taken care during accident, Emergency option allow user to call emergency number as well as user can customise their contact info for emergency calls.
Role and Responsibility	Handing Team, Development, implementation, CR/ER handling and calls.
Market Link 	https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.claim.rsa
3.   Project Title 		RSA Canada - Blackberry
      Technology		Blackberry 4.0 and above
      Team Size			2
      APIs			Location APIs, Blackberry Map, Contact APIs etc
      Duration			August 2011 – January 2012
      Client			CGI/RSA Canada
      Description	RSA Canada was an Insurance Claim app developed for IOS android and Blackberry.
Application was divided into 9 Separate modules namely RSA Claim, Broker, Flashlight, Accident Checklist, Emergency, Auto Repair Shop, Our Products, Get Me there and About US respectively.
RSA Claim was used to claim the insurance if any accident happens, we were sending all user data to Restful server and we were allowing user to upload max 4 photos of injuries and accident.
Brokers was use to search broker based on user input, Brokers and Auto repair shop was almost identical user was allowed to search brokers and Auto repair based on 3 selection.
1) based on Current Location, 2) based on Search location – user can enter a complete address to search a broker which was then populated on Google map and 3) Full list- it was populating complete list on to a list view.
Flashlight option can turn your LED light into torch, Accident Checklist to display what precaution should be taken care during accident, Emergency option allow user to call emergency number as well as user can customise their contact info for emergency calls.
Role and Responsibility	Handing Team, Development, implementation, CR/ER handling and calls.
Market Link	http://appworld.blackberry.com/webstore/content/77237/?lang=en

4.   Project Title 		Bon Voyage V1.0
      Technology		Android SDK 2.1 and Above 
      Team Size			2
      APIs	Location APIs, Google Map, Contact APIs, FB integration, Picasa integration, twitter, etc
      Duration			March 2011 – August 2011
      Client			HTS Product
      Description	A Complete trip Solution, You can start a trip, save the trip details like trip name , description of trip, friends with whom trip started etc can be saved.
As soon as trip is started we are activating GPS reading and start recording trip route, apart from trip tracking, you can capture trip images, you can write trip notes, you can save trip expenses, we have integrated Place API also in app to find petrol bunk, ATM, restaurant etc.
      Role and Responsibility	Designing coding and testing.
Market Link	Developing Version 1.1, App is not on Android Market but can be downloaded from IADC App World.
5.   Project Title 		MPOS-Barcode Scanner
      Technology		Android SDK 2.1 and Above 
      Team Size			1
      APIs	ZXING 1.1
      Duration			January 2011 – March 2011
      Client			HTS Product
      Description	Its a mobile point of Sale application, We have integrated ZXING APIs for barcode and QR scanning, Based on read barcode we are doing billing, integrated Bluetooth printing.
Role and Responsibility	Designing coding and testing.
Market Link	Customizable application, Distribution based on requirement.
6.   Project Title 		EkClick Smart Home
      Technology		Android SDK 1.5 and Above 
      Team Size			2
      APIs	Android Inbuilt APIs, X10 protocol and PLC
      Duration			June 2008 – Dec 2010
      Client			3gbits Communication
      Description	This is a Home Automation solution meant to control all home appliances including AC,TV, Radio, Geysers etc, We have implemented X10 protocol and PLC, A x10 server was implemented in between device and power line.
Role and Responsibility	Designing coding and testing.
Market Link	Customizable application, Distribution based on requirement.
7.   Project Title 		EkClick Genie
      Technology		Android SDK 1.5 and Above 
      Team Size			2
      APIs	Android Inbuilt APIs
      Duration			June 2008 – Dec 2010
      Client			3gbits Communication
      Description	Online ordering system very much similar to hungry Bangalore, Users were allowed to select hotels from the list and then main menu and sub menu were displayed, users were able to place and order based on item customization.
Role and Responsibility	Designing coding and testing.
Market Link	Customizable application, Distribution based on requirement.
8.  Project Title 		EkClick Smart Home
      Technology		J2ME
      Team Size			2
      APIs	CLDC 1.0, MIDP 2.0
      Duration			June 2008 – Dec 2010
      Client			3gbits Communication
      Description	This is a Home Automation solution meant to control all home appliances including AC,TV, Radio, Geysers etc, We have implemented X10 protocol and PLC, A x10 server was implemented in between device and power line.
Role and Responsibility	Designing coding and testing.
Market Link	Customizable application, Distribution based on requirement.
9.   Project Title 		EkClick Genie
      Technology		J2ME
      Team Size			2
      APIs	MIDP 2.0, CLDC 1.0
      Duration			June 2008 – Dec 2010
      Client			3gbits Communication
      Description	Online ordering system very much similar to hungry Bangalore, Users were allowed to select hotels from the list and then main menu and sub menu were displayed, users were able to place and order based on item customization.
Role and Responsibility	Designing coding and testing.
Market Link	Customizable application, Distribution based on requirement.
10.
Project Title 		Location Based Advertisement
      Technology		J2ME
      Team Size			2
      APIs	MIDP 2.0, CLDC 1.0, J2me Location APIs
      Duration			June 2008 – Dec 2010
      Client			3gbits Communication
      Description	We were fetching latitude and longitude of the device and based on that we were displaying advertisement on device, Server was preconfigured with some video and Images (Advertisement) for a particular path, Devices were downloading these images and video and other details like number of time , duration of advertisement etc and we were then playing the files based on location found.
Role and Responsibility	Designing coding and testing.
Market Link	Customizable application, Distribution based on requirement.
Educational Background

MCA from Annamalai University, Chidambram in year 2008 and Session was 2005-2008.
Scored 69.11% 
BA Economics(Hons) from Patna University, Patna in year 2005 and Session was 2002-05, Scored 62%
10+2 Maths and Biology, from Patna in year 2002, and session was 2002-05, Scored 62%.
10th from BSEB Patna, 2000 with 59.72%

Personal Background										

DOB:				01 January 1986
Father’s Name:		Jitendra Nath Mishra
Permanent Address:		Hanumat Ashirwad Bhawan,
				Kadam Kuan, Park Road,
				Patna -03, Bihar, India
Passport Number:		H8618406

Declaration 
I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct up to my knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above-mentioned particulars.
Sincerely yours
Place: Bangalore                                                                                                 Shashank Shekhar 

SIDDHARTH DASGUPTA
Email: siddharthdg@gmail.com
Mobile : +91 9739655330 URL : http://www.linkedin.com/in/siddharthdg
OBJECTIVE

Have a challenging career in enterprise level application design and development.
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

Having 2.8 years of experience in Java enterprise and web based application development for telecom clients on multi-tier architecture using MVC, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC and EJB.
TECHNICAL SUMMARY

· Operating systems
: Linux, UNIX and Windows XP

· Languages
: Java & J2EE
· Environment
: J2EE, Struts/MVC, EJB, Servlets, Apache Tomcat


· Tools
: Ant, SVN, Hibernate, ECACHE, XHTML ,XML, 

  HP Quality Center, WINSCP, PUTTY
· RDBMS
: Oracle  SQL 
· Application /Web servers
: Apache Tomcat 5.x, Jonas 4.X,Weblogic
· Products
: Comverse One CSS(Netanomy)
CERTIFICATIONS

· Sun Certified Java Programmer  5.0 (SCJP) 

· Candidate ID: SR6236588
EDUCATION

· Bachelor of Engineering(Information Science)      : RNSIT, Visvesvaraya Technological University 
· Intermediate




: The Daly College Indore (C.B.S.E)
· SSC





: The Daly College Indore (C.B.S.E)
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY
CAPGEMINI INDIA, BANGALORE


Consultant

Projects:

Mobistar Self-care & CRM:


25 Feb 2010 to Current

Client: Mobistar


Role and Responsibility:
-Responsible for development & customization 

-Consumer Portal Functional Lead

-Environment Setup 

Description: 
Mobistar Program is an IT Renewal project with Comverse One product where our team is responsible for delivering Self-Care & CRM portal which are part of the Comverse One Suit.
Where Self-care portal is targeted for prepaid, postpaid & converged clients and CRM portals are for telecom users & partners.
Technologies:
Java, J2EE, JSP & Servlets, Web Service , CSS, Unix, Comverse One 3.5.xx
CSS (Netonomy), Web service, SSH Gateways, Tunneling, SCP Scripts

Projects:

Business Process Management:


28 Dec 2009 to 23 Feb 2010

Client: France Telecom


Role and Responsibility:
Responsible for support & maintenance 

Description: 
SEM-GPM (Conversion of Prepaid user to Postpaid User)
The process of conversion from prepaid to postpaid involves updating various application across FT which was achieved by developing a middleware.
The middleware (SEM-GPM) was developed on a SOA architecture.
Which would seamlessly migrate a user from prepaid to postpaid.
Technologies:
Webmethod 7, Shell Scripting, Java/J2EE & JoNAS application server

Internal Web Portal :

Throughout 2009

Client: Capgemini Internal


Role and Responsibility:
Development & Maintenance.
Description:

ITSC Portal was an internal portal for the telecom business unit which has features like quizzes, blogging, forums, daily updates , clients info , projects, etc


Technologies:

XAMPP, Joomla & PHP
Android:

08 Sept 2009 to 01 Oct 2009

Client: Capgemini Internal


Role and Responsibility:
Development of the UI & interface with external servers.
Description:

Android is an internal capgemini project where various applications for the Google Mobile Platform Android are developed.
Technologies:

Android SDK 1.5, ADT-0.9.1 & DoidDraw
Orange Mobile Portal:

10 Aug 2008 to 15 Sept 2009

Client: Orange Telecom


Role and Responsibility:
I took part in Testing during the integration phase of the project.
Description:

Tracking is an application which is used to generate stastical data, based on the usage of the portal.
Technologies:

Java, Web Service, Open Reports & HP Quality center

VEGAS: 

27 Sept 2008 to 7 Aug 2009


(Awarded Project Star for VEGAS)


Client: France Telecom


Role and Responsibility:
I took part in design, development and integration phase of the project.
Apart from development I was involved in Functional and Non-Regression testing.
Description: 
France Telecomm is the telecom service provider in Europe.
VEGAS is a France Telecomm project that deals with the Sales, Collection and Stock management system of the France Telecom shops.
Vegas-Web is the intranet of France Telecom.
It involves planning of call, the management of the inventories and the report writing of stock and accountants
Other Module Isiweb acts interface to interact with external applications

Technologies:

Java, J2EE, JSP & Servlets, Web Service, Jonas Server, SQL Server  

.
- 1 -
        SIDDHARTH DASGUPTA 



S.LakshmiKanth Reddy
Plot 40, door 6, Third Floor, 2nd Cross P.R. Layout, Munnekolala, Marathahalli, Bangalore - 560037
slreddy_1137@yahoo.co.in, slreddy1137@gmail.com
+91-9849973713 (INDIA)

Objective

To learn new emerging Technologies and implement them by comparing with the existing technologies.
Experience

Sr. iPhone Developer, SAP LABS, Bangalore, June 20th 2011 to Present.
Working on BI product supporting for iPad.
Worked on creating custom components like Interactive Table.
Worked on Crystal Reports support for iPad.
iPhone Developer, Eurosoft Technologies Pvt.
Ltd , Bahrain, April 12th 2010 to June 3rd 2011.
Worked for client Citibank.
Working on Iphone & Ipad application Development for Citi Bank.
Working on Android application Development for Citi Bank.
Working on Blackberry application Development for Citi Bank.
Software Engineer, Sapplica Technologies Pvt.
Ltd , Hyderabad, May 11th 2009 to March 31st 2010.
Worked on Iphone application Development.
Managed Team of 3 people for few projects.
Worked on Nokia application Development using JME.
Worked on Nokia widget Development.
Worked on Open Social Platform like Facebook.
Software Engineer, Netpixel Inc, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, May 1st  2008 – Feb 28th  2009
Worked on Apple Iphone application Development on Mac OS X Leopard.
Worked on Web Application Development.
Frontend Development using Adobe Flex3, and ActionScript 3.0 with Cairngorm Architecture implemented using Design Patterns like Singleton, Adapter, and Decorator.
Backend Development based on Java 1.6 with Hibernate and Spring Framework using MySql database.
Integrating with Backend (Java) using LCDS (Live Cycle Data Services).
Worked with (FMS) Flash Media Server 3.0 and Red 5 for streaming the videos and audios using RTMP (Real Time Messaging Protocol).
Worked with Virtual Server using Amazon EC2.
Worked with Vritual storage using Amazon S3.
Worked with Lucene Search Engine for indexing the files.
Guest Lecturer, visited Loyola Academy, Secunderabad for giving Lecture on Design Patterns, how they are useful in the real time application development, 2008.
Guest Lecturer,visited Bharat P.G.
College, Hyderabad for giving Lecture on Design Patterns, how they are useful in the real time application development, 2008.
Java Trainer worked with Reach IT institute, near OU campus, Hyderabad, Jan 2007 – Mar 2008.
Corporate Trainer, given training for Verizon freshers on Java, Socket Programming, 2007.
Education
Master of Computer Applications 						July 2005 – April 2008
Loyola Academy,
Osmania University, 
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh,
INDIA.
Bachelors Degree BSc (Computers)						May 2002 – June 2005
Shadan Degree College,
Osmania University,
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh,
INDIA

Intermediate (M.P.C)								May 2000 – April 2002
Sri Chaitanya Junior College,
Board of Intermediate,
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh,
INDIA.
MATRICULATION (S.S.C)							May 1999 – April 2000
Oxford Grammar High School,
Board of Secondary,
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh,
INDIA.
Computer Skills
Presentation Tier:
Flex 3, Actionscript 3.0 using Cairngorm Architecture, CSS, JavaScript, ExtJS, JSP, COCOA Framework (used by Apple), Axure (used for designing the Mockup Screens), Balsamiq Mockups, LWUIT(good UI tool for JME applications), COCOS2D(for iphone development).
MiddleWare Tier:
LCDS (Live Cycle Data Services).
Business Tier:
Core Java, JEE, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, JME, Lucene Search Engine, Design Patterns (Creational, Structural, Behavioral, Architectural), Objective-C (mostly used by Apple) with MVC architecture.
Database Tier:
MySql, Sqlite, RMS(Record Management Store used for JME applications).
Servers:
Tomcat 6.0, XAMPP, FMS (Flash Media Server), Red 5, Amazon EC2 (Virtual Server).
Operating Systems:
Mac OS X 10.7 (Lion), Windows xp, Fedora Core 6.0 (Linux).
IDE (Integrated Development Environment):
Edit Plus, Xcode, Eclipse, Netbeans, Flex IDE, SciTE (Ruby development),  SEPY Actionscript Editor.
Achievements
SCJP (Sun Certified Java Professional) certified.
Got third prize in the “Adobe Flex Boot Camp” contest based on Flex technology conducted by Adobe in Hyderabad.
Participated in Windows 8 App Fest contest in 2012 in Bangalore.
Projects
1.  SAP MOBI(iPad application):
Description: This is SAP Labs Native application to provide iPad client for BI Product.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.6, COCOA Framework, iOS SDK 4.3, iPad Simulator, Xcode IDE, Webservices.
Duration: Jun 20th 2011– present.
Team Size: 14
Client: SAP LABS.
My Role: Taken up Modules like application Upgrade, Prompts feature, Crystal Reports feature, custom components like Interactive table.
2.  CitiFX Pulse(Iphone application):
Description: This is Citibank native application, which shows the Forex Markets Live Rates and Deals Booking details, user can book the Deals.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.6, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 3.0, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE, Webservices.
Duration: Apr 12th 2010– Jul 31st 2010.
Team Size: 2
Client: Citibank.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.

3.  CitiFX Pulse(Android application):
Description: This is Citibank native application, which shows the Forex Markets Live Rates and Deals Booking details, user can book the Deals.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.6, Eclipse IDE, Android SDK 2.0, Webservices.
Duration: Aug 1st 2010– Sep 30th 2010.
Team Size: 2
Client: Citibank.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
4.  DailyDeeds (Iphone application):
Description: This project allows the user to add his daily deeds and the user can tick on the deed for the day if it is completed, A detailed view will be shown in the calendar  if the user wants to know on what all days he has completed the deed.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 2.2, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE,Sqlite.
Duration: Apr 6th 2009 – Apr 28th 2009.
Client: Sourcebits.
Team Size: 4.
My Role: Create database structure and integrate with the View.
5.  itransmit (Iphone application):
Description: itransmit allows to broadcast your location to your friends and family.
They will be able to track your location from another iPhone.
Friends and family don't have an iPhone?
No problem.
A unique web link can be forwarded to them that they can use from any location in the world to track you.
Locations broadcasted by you are available on a map view both on the iPhone and the website.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 2.2, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE,Sqlite, Maps API,REST Webservices, CoreLocation Framework.
Duration: May 12th 2009 – Jun 13th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: Approval Pending.
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
6.  BubbleFun(Iphone application):
Description: Kids love bubbles!
Keep them busy with this fun application with smiley bubbles that they can pop by touching them.Bubbles can be generated by touching the bubble blower on the screen or blowing through the microphone.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 2.2, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE.
Duration: Jun 19th 2009 – Jul 9th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: http://itunes.apple.com/in/app/bubblefun/id324678603?mt=8
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
7.  AnimalKites(Iphone application):
Description: Animal kites is the funniest way for your kids to learn about Kites and animal sounds.
Can it get any more fun?Kites can be generated by touching the wind mill on the screen or blowing through the microphone.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 2.2, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE.
Duration: Jul 10th 2009 – Jul 20th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: http://itunes.apple.com/in/app/animalkites/id324679507?mt=8
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
8.  Super15(Iphone application):
Description: Solve the puzzle by arranging the shuffled tiles in sequence, you can use default numbered tiles, alphabet tiles, roman numerals , pick image from your phone gallery or take picture and solve the puzzle.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 3.0, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE,  CoreData Framework, AdMob Framework, COCOS2D Framework.
Duration: Jul 22nd 2009 – Aug 10th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: http://itunes.apple.com/in/app/super15/id327339742?mt=8
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
9.  Super15Plus(Iphone application):
Description: Solve the puzzle by arranging the shuffled tiles in sequence, you can use default numbered tiles, alphabet tiles, roman numerals , pick image from your phone gallery or take picture and solve the puzzle,  multiple players can play, you can also submit score to High Score Server.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 3.0, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE,  CoreData Framework, AdMob Framework, COCOS2D Framework, RESTful Webservices, COCOS2D HighScore server.
Duration: Aug 12th 2009 – Aug 29th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: http://itunes.apple.com/in/app/super15plus/id329749534?mt=8
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
10.
FotoAlbums For Facebook(Iphone application):
Description: FotoAlbums is a slick way to manage your Facebook photos and albums.
Upload photos to facebook albums using a simple and intuitive interface.
Create new albums.
Download pictures to your iphone.
Capture life's precious moments and instantly exchange with your Facebook account.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 3.0, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE,  Facebook API.
Duration: Sep 1st 2009 – Oct 1st 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: http://itunes.apple.com/in/app/fotoalbums-for-facebook/id334833579?mt=8
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
11.
Super15(Nokia application):
Description: Solve the puzzle by arranging the shuffled tiles in sequence, you can use default numbered tiles, alphabet tiles, roman numerals , pick image from your phone gallery or take picture and solve the puzzle.
Technologies Used: Windows xp, JME, Eclipse, Sun Wireless Toolkit, Record Management Store, Singleton Pattern.
Duration: Oct 3rd 2009 – Nov 5th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: Signing is pending.
Team Size: 3.
My Role: Team lead, defined the architecture and guided juniors on how to develop the application, written some major functionality like tile movements and preserving the tile status.
12.  X-Mas Tree(Iphone application):
Description: Create your own christmas tree on the iPhone by putting ornaments, trees, skirts, backgrounds and tree tops.
Save to gallery and/or publish to facebook.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 3.0, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE,  Facebook API.
Duration: Nov 10th 2009 – Nov 15th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: http://itunes.apple.com/in/app/x-mastree/id341339002?mt=8
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
13.
Istatus(Iphone application):
Description: This application allows the user to set his status on the facebook  either by choosing from the predefined templates or Recent status, user can append his current location while updating the status, user can set his future status also where the application reminds him when the time occurs for the future status that is set previously.
Technologies Used: Mac OS X 10.5, COCOA Framework, Iphone SDK 3.0, Iphone Simulator, Xcode IDE,  Facebook API, RESTful webservices.
Duration: Nov 30th 2009 – Dec 30th 2009.
Client: Sapplica.
Deployment: Approval Pending.
Team Size: 1.
My Role: Whole and sole of the application, defined architecture and developed completely from End to End.
14.
My Video Resume:
	Module1: Registration, Authentication, Login.
Description: 
Candidate or Employer comes for registering him/her self with MVR a verification link will be sent to the candidate or Employer  mail id.
Candidate or Employer can login only after the verification is completed.\
Module2: Profile Creation.
Description:
Candidate can create his/her profile in Textual / Create Video / Create Audio / Upload Video / Upload Audio.
Module3: Publishing Profile.
Description:
Candidate can Distribute his profile to his friends or others, Unique URL is given to his profile, where the candidate is going to send this unique URL across his/her friends, Candidate can also Distribute his Video/Audio Profile.
Module4: Candidate Search for Employer.
Description:
Employer should be able to search for the candidate with search criteria.
Technologies Used: Flex 3.0, Actionscript 3.0, Cairngorm Architecture, JavaScript, LCDS, JEE, Hibernate, Spring, My SQL, and FMS.
Duration: June 2008 – Jan 2009.
Client: Netpixel Inc.
Personal Information
Name				: 	S.LakshmiKanth Reddy.
Fathers Name			:	S.Sudhershan Reddy.
DOB				:	22nd Jan, 1985.
Leisure Activity			:	Learning  new things.
Languages Known		:	Telugu, Hindi, and English.
Place:	Secunderabad
Date:									(S.LakshmiKanth Reddy)


Tapas Ranjan Panda

#6, 1st floor, 10th cross
Hemavatty Street
Ramamurthy nagar

Bangalore-68                                                                 Email: tapaspanda05@gmail.com
Mobile No: 09739832750

Seeking a challenging position in corporate world where my skills and abilities will help in fulfilling the corporate objectives and personal growth.
Professional Experience:

· 4 years of Software Development Experience in Java, J2ME and Android.
· Experience in developing Mobile Application.
· Experience in High level and low level UI design.
· Experienced with complete application development life-cycle including requirements gathering, analysis and design, coding, testing and deployment.
· Working on Agile Methodology.
Work Experience:

· Working as a Software Engineer with  Aricent   Pvt Ltd , Bangalore from Jan 2010  to

 till date.
· Worked as a Software Engineer with PrevaTest Solution Pvt.Ltd, Bangalore from June      2008 to Jan 2010.
Technical Skills:

Operating System 
                 : WIN 95/ 98/ XP/2003
Programming Language           : JAVA, J2EE, J2ME, ANDROID
J2ME Technology                      : MIDP 1.0/ 2.0, CLDC 1.0/1.1
J2ME Optional Packages          : JSR 120/205, JSR 75, JSR 135, JSR 172, JSR 82

J2EE Technology                       : Servlet, JSP, JDBC
WEB Technology                       : HTML
Design/Development Tools        : Android SDK/WTK2.5 /Eclipse3.5
Education/Technical Qualification 

· B.Tech in Computer Science & Engg.
From B.P.U.T, Orissa with an aggregate of 70%.
· +2 (science) from C.H.S.E, Orissa in 2002.
· 10th from B.S.E, Orissa in 2000.
Project Summary: 

Project #1                 
: NfcpaySolution
Technology                : Android, Java, Jira 

Team Size

: 2
Duration

: Oct 2011 to till date.
Description 

: nfcPaySolution is utility application developed over android.
2.3.4
Which will allow the end user to do online payment; it’s an alternative payment method.
Instead of paying with cash, cheque or credit cards, a consumer can use a mobile phone to pay for a wide range of services.
Role                          : Involved in UX design and development for client Application.
Involved in UX design and development for reader application

Involved in integration of reader app and payment gateway server 
Involved in get the data from NFC device using nfc reader.
Involved in parsing and send the data to payment gateway server

Involved in parsing the response from payment gateway server 
and display it in reader app.
Involved in Bug Fixing
Project #2                 
: Smart Social

Technology                : Android, Java, Jira 

Team Size

: 4

Duration

: July 2011 to Oct 2011.
Description 

: Smart Social is utility application developed over android.
2.2 Which will allow the end user to upload the video /Photos across social networking site on real time from android supported mobiles using the GPRS.
Role                          : Involved in UX design and development for Application.
Involved in Development and understanding the communication API for uploading the photo in flicker/facebook.
Bug Fixing
Project #3                 
: Urbanpulzze
Technology                : Android, Java, Jira 

Team Size

: 4

Duration

: March 2011 to June.
2022.
Client                          : Moticity (Veolia Transport)
Description 

: The aim of the application is to provide to users a geo-localization service that propose a lot of information about VEOLIA transport ( timetable, traffic, station, trip planner) and content about local event around the user position in the town ( promotion, social event, weather, Theater event…)

Urbanpulzze provides the following functionalities:

· Module Scheduler 

· Module TRIP PLANNER.
· Module FUZZY MEETING 

· Module Local Content 

· Module Promotion 

.
Role                          : Involved in UX design and development for Application.
Implementation and testing of the module 
Involved in Bug Fixing
Project #4                  : REC (Nokia Rich Entertainment Center)
Technology                : J2ME, JAVA, Helium, Nokia S-40, Jira
Team Size

: 12
Duration

: Feb 2010 to Feb 2011.
Client                          : NOKIA
Description 

:  Nokia Rich Entertainment Center is a rich music player which is more advanced, feature rich and next generation player for full touch s40 devices using Helium platform.
This application provides three static sources Library, Playlist and Mix.
This application also facilitates third-party developers to develop different types of Plug- in over Helium SDK
Role                          : Involved in UI design for Player, FM Radio, Now playing screen.
Parsing and updating the JSON file and store it.
Involved in UI integration with framework.
Involved in UI implementation for Video Playback.
Involved in implementation audio and video play back for player

Involved in Bug Fixing
Project #5                  : Ad-Wrap

Technology                : J2ME, J2EE

Team Size

: 5

Duration

: Oct 2009 to Jan 2010.
Client                          : Greystripe (www.greystripe.com)
Description 

: It is a mobile advertising technology.
Ad Wrap technology is a both mobile and web based application developing by using JAVA technology.
It’s basically a Mobile Advertising technology.
Here the ads are bundle with the game which user downloads and the ads are changing after playing the game for 8 times.
It displays ads before starting the game and after playing the game.
Role                          : Involved in UI design of Pre/Post game menu.
Involved in storing data in RMS

                                    Porting the application in different mobile device

                                    Mobile Application Testing

Project #6                 : MobiHelp

Technology                : J2ME, J2EE

Team Size

: 2

Duration

: 6months
Description 

:The application acts as a search engine on the mobile device where the user can log in and search and view information related to hotels, travel agencies, health facilities, entertainment, shopping in a city , and they can also book available  facilities from mobile device .
Role                            :  Involved in UI design, and Screen flow

                                       Involved in Connection to server

                                       Involved in data store in RMS

                                       Involved in integration of all modules.
Porting the application in different mobile device.
Project #7

: MinimizeText 

Technology                : J2ME

Team Size

: 4

Duration

: 6 months

Description 

: We usually send SMS in our mobile by using 160 characters normally.
But in minimize text we can send more than 300 characters at a time.
The applications compress the text and send it to the receiver end.
The receiver will get the original message.
Role                            :  Involved in UI design, and Screen flow

                                       Involved in data store in RMS

                                       Involved in integration of all modules.
Porting the application in different mobile device.
Project #8       
: GUI Development Tools.
Technology                : J2ME

Team Size

: 2
Duration

: 3 months

Description 

: The objective of the application is to design the UI Component for mobile device.
It is basically a Graphical user interface project for Mobile devices.
We can easily create Text Field, Text box, Check box, Radio button, List component, Scroll Up/Down bar, Ticker, Menu box etc with the help of this by using Low Level API (Canvas).
It is purely soft coded so that it can support all the mobiles available regardless of screen size.
This project some how the platform for the developments of other project.
Role                            :  Involved in UI design, and Screen flow

                                       Porting the application in different mobile device.
Personal Profile:

Name                       : Tapas Ranjan Panda

Date of Birth           :  09/10/1984

Sex/Marital Status: Male/Unmarried.
Language Known    : English, Hindi, Oriya

Permanent Address   : Irrigation Colony (L.no:7), Bhawanipatna 

                                   Kalahindi Orissa-760010

                                               Phone.No-09739832750

Declaration:

I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct up to my knowledge and

 I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above-mentioned particulars

Place: Bangalore                                          


Tapas Ranjan Panda

      
ABHILASH RAMACHANDRAN
Module lead/Tech lead.
Abhilash has 7  years of experience in Information Technology. He has experience in the analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of web-based and client- server applications using Java and J2EE technologies. He also has experience in gathering and analyzing requirements and preparing specifications.
Major Strengths:
• Creating prototypes and high and low level designs.
• Debugging and performing general troubleshooting.
• Developing and integrating components.
• Preparing unit test cases and performing unit testing.
• Leading and mentoring individuals to maximize levels of productivity.
• Expertise in Java, J2EE architecture, JSP, Java Bean, Servlets, Hibernate, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Struts, JUnit, Ant, Oracle 10, XML, Ajax, JavaScript, TomCat 5.x, design patterns, JBoss, Eclipse 3.x.and SVN.
• Providing technical solutions.
• Experience in domains including Retail, Calendaring and scheduling, Energy and power distribution, Health care and Email security.
• SCJP.
• An active member in organizational level activities.
• Experience in Agile Scrum methodology.
• Proven team leading skills.
Technical Skills:
Languages
Java, C, and C++
Operating Systems
MS Windows XP/2000 and Linux (Red hat 7.x)
Databases
Oracle 8/10 and MySQL 4.0
J2EE Technologies/ Utilities
JavaBean, JDBC, JSP, Servlet, RMI and Webservice.
Web Technologies
HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSTL, XML, AJAX, Velocity, and free marker template.
Application/Web Servers	
Tomcat, Weblogic ,Websphere and JBoss.
Tools
Apache-Ant 1.6.0
Frameworks                      
Apache Struts-1.2, Spring Framework-1.2.8.
OR Mapping Tool
Hibernate 2/3, iBatis
Testing Tool		
JUnit
IDE
Eclipse
Packages
MS Office
Project Experience:
Mphasis an HP company Mumbai/Mangalore
Jan 2010- present 
As a Moduel lead (Role to client is tech lead) Abhilash is involved in the analysis, development of health care domain project by interacting directly with the US client. Abhilash has also taken technical sessions and involved in the architectural design meetings. This application is going to be the master piece in SOA.

• Analyzing requirements and designing the module
• Estimation using Scrum Poker.
• Leading a tem of 8 members.
• Mentoring and guiding team members
• Integrating components
• Performing code reviews
• Responsible for delivery.
• Point of contact for Client.
• Coordination with testing team.
• Worked on e prescribe, Capitation and pharmacy modules.
Environment: J2ee, Webservice, Spring ,iBatis, Oracle and Weblogic.
Achievement:
• Recognized for performance and dedication and got a good appraisal within 9 months of joining.
• Member of tech lead forum.

UST Global, Cochin, India
Nov 2007 to Jan 2010
CSA-LI Phase 2                                                    April 2009 to Jan 2010
As a Senior Software engineer, Abhilash is involved in the analysis, development, and testing of the CSA project. The objective of the project is to provide an administration console to monitor and control the security aspects of the mailboxes/ domain name.  

The CSA Commercial Console is an administration console to monitor and control the security aspects of the Abuse environment. Most of the functionality, listed below, is user driven, controlled by roles based access and depends on Bizanga server to achieve its end.
• Analyzing requirements and designing the application
• Creating the prototype
• Preparing program specifications
• Configuring the Spring Bean Factory pattern for the module Data Loader and Validator
• Integrating components
• Performing code reviews
• Preparing unit test cases and performing unit and integration testing of various components 
• Handling the QC role.
Environment: Java, Spring and Struts.
Achievement:
• Got nominated to and currently member of EBU PoC group which is also called emerging leaders group.
Envoy                                                                      October 2008 to Jan 2009
As Senior Software Engineer, Abhilash was involved in the analysis, design, development, and testing of Envoy is gas transport management system which has a web interface using which users can monitor gas flow, bid/purchase gas rights.

Roles and Responsibilities:

• Analyzing and estimating the requirements 
• Interacting and coordinating with on-side people. 
• Designing
• Coding 
• Unit and regression testing
• Delivery.
Achievement: 
• Recognized as the best performer considering both Envoy and SCBS.
• Delivered project SCBS with Zero Bugs.

SCBS  
   Oct 2008 to Jan 2009 
As Senior Software, Abhilash was involved in the analysis, design, development, and testing of SCBS which is a specialized customer billing system. It is one of the most complex billing systems in the world. His responsibilities included:
• Gathering and analyzing requirements.
• Preparing estimation.
• Designing the module.
• Estimation
• Team leading/mentoring
• Performing code reviews.
• Monitoring unit and integration testing.
• Responsible for Delivery.

Environment: Java, Swing, Persistence framework from client(very similar to Hibernate),iReport, and Jasper Reports.

Online Ordering (OLO)   			                         April 2008 to Oct 2008
As Senior Software Engineer, Abhilash was involved in the production support, performance optimization, improvising interfacing with other systems and direct interaction with end users of the OLO application. This is an online ordering system using which HEB store partners can order products for their stores. He was also responsible for supporting the BDM application which is used by Business development managers to authorize stores for ordering products. In short stores will be able to order only those products through OLO which are authorized through BDM.
Roles and Responsibilities.
• Resolving production issues tickets.
• Knowledge transfer from Wipro who has developed the OLO and BDM.
• Optimizing the system.
• Proposing improvisation in the existing system.
• Providing Knowledge transfer of a really big enterprise system containing 160+ enterprise applications to other team members.
• Configuring and deploying the application in WebSphere 
• Work closely with Mainframe, Tibco and Point of sale team.
• Interacting and coordinating with other supporting team including Client IT team,Wipro, IBM and Accenture.
Environment: Java, Struts, EJB, JMS, YUI, Oracle 9i, Websphere 5 and RAD.
Achievement: 
• Recognized for outstanding performance in a critical application failure situation (Power outage).

CSA-LI Phase 1
December 2007 to March 2008
As an IT consultant , Abhilash was involved in the design, development, and testing of LI(Legal intercept) and CSA(Customer security assurance)
The Legal Intercept Service allows monitoring and preserving those mail accounts which have legal warrants against them. It depends on other Velodrome Email systems such as Anti-Abuse System (Bizanga Mail Transfer Agent), Zimbra Mail Store, Provisioning (ISPP), Edge (Directory) and Radius server.

The CSA Admin Console project allows monitoring and controlling the Spamming and Phishing aspects of the Anti-Abuse environment. Functionalities like Blocking/Unblocking IPs, White listing and black listing of IPs, Audit Trailing and Trend reporting and other domain related functionalities are provided to user through the application. The system will interface with Bizanga for IP operations and active directory for updating white lists and black lists.
His responsibilities included:
• Creating high and low level designs
• Preparing unit test cases 
• Coding and performing code reviews
• Performing unit testing 
Environment: Java, spring, Struts, JBoss and Oracle.
Achievement:
• Based on his performance in this project he was converted from the IT Consultant contract position to permanent role Senior Software Engineer. 

Mediant Solutions Pvt Ltd, Cochin, Kerala, India.


Mar 2007- Nov 2007
CenterCourt                                                                                     Mar 2007- Nov 2007
As Software Engineer, Abhilash was involved in the design, development, and testing of the enhancements and bug fixes in Center Court.
Center Court is the most advanced calendaring and scheduling software for the judicial court system. It is centered around the process of scheduling a hearing, motion, trial or court event for a judge, courtroom or court type. Center Court facilitates the ultimate in case tracking!
Center Court can effectively manage the most strenuous docket for any criminal, civil, probate, family, traffic or juvenile court at the State or Federal level. Searching and reporting is as easy as 1-2-3!
The intuitive user interface and dashboard is easy to learn. It enhances court personnel efficiency, increases productivity and saves time.
 His responsibilities included:
• Developing business components
• Performance tuning.
• Bug fixing.
• Enhancement.
• Member of the architecture team in designing the next version of the product.
• Preparing Level designs, Business Delegate, and DAO patterns for each component
• Performing unit testing
Environment:  Freemarker template, X work, Spring, Hibernate 2.0, Java, Velocity, JBoss, Tomcat and Eclipse.	
ULTRA OASIS TECHNO SOLUTIONS PVT. LTD, Edapal, Kerala, India.
July 2004 - Dec 2006
Web based college automation
As Project Manager, Abhilash was involved in the development and Management of the College Automation Software.
• Gathering requirements from the onsite team
• Analyzing requirements and creating wire frames
• Implementing Ajax for each JSP page.
• Managing project.
• Mentoring junior team members.
• Managing the testing team.
• Delivery.
• Basic System administration
• Involved in A-Z work of this project
Environment: JSP,Servlet,Ajax,My eclipse,Tomcat, Redhat Linux 3.
Achievement : 
• Joined as a software engineer , base on his performance and managerial skills he got the chance to take up the Project Manager role challenge and executed that role successfully.

Education:
• DOEACC A level, DOEACC New Delhi, 2004
• Bachelor of Science in Mathematics, Calicut University, Kerala, India, 2003

Personal Information
Date of Birth			:	12-02-1983.
Gender 				:	Male.
Current Location			:	Mangalore.
Notice period			:	Two months.
Languages Known		 	:	English, Malayalam & Hindi.
Passport				: 	Yes.
Contact Details :( Res)                       :     	0494-2698453
 	Mobile                                 	 :	91 917259892634
Permanent Address			:	Abhilash.R
		          				Ramanilayam
		         				PO Mudur
		          				Malappuram (Dist)
    Kerala – 679578
    India.



2
		

		

Adarsha M 
 
Servicenow developer/admin. (ServiceNow Sys Admin certified)
Good knowledge on Servicenow, Java, J2EE.
 
 
• Current Designation: ServiceNow developer
• Current Company: Self
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Anywhere in South India
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: System Admin
• Industry: Fresher/Trainee
• Date of Birth / Gender: 02 Jul 1988 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 8 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.20 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: M.Tech [Computers]
• Phone: 9538715924Verified
 
• Email: adarsha.m002@gmail.com Verified ,
adarshait002@gmail.com
• Address: 64/b 1st cross pipelaneroad 
vijaya nagar bangalore, Bangalore - 560040
 
• Key Skills: Servicenow,JAVA,J2EE,STRUTS,HIBERNATE
ServiceNow Sys Admin certified.
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 7232d78e6e4d420c46Last Active: 14-Oct-14Last Modified: 14-Oct-14

ADARSHA M
Email:adarsha.m002@gmail.com
Mobile No: +91-9538715924


Objective
      Looking for a challenging position in the field of software design and development in an organization and that will allow me to grow with the organization personally and professionally so that my knowledge, experience and skill can be utilized and broadened effectively to sustain a competitive edge for the organization.

Summary of Experience
• ServiceNow Sys Admin certified.
• Working as individual ServiceNow developer providing developmental support to various companies. Provide outsourcing development/enhancements on different SN applications/modules including service catalogs. 
• Good working exposure in Software Application Development based on J2EE enterprise solutions using Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, and Struts2.0.
• Good technical and communication skills, demonstrate team & leadership abilities and loyal work ethics.

Technical Skills

Primary Skills
Servicenow,Java, J2EE
Operating Systems 
Windows 2000/XP
Languages 
 Javascript, HTML
Client / Server Technologies
 J2EE
Databases
Oracle 10g 
Application Servers 
 JBoss 4.2.3, Weblogic 10.3
Development Tools
 ServiceNow (Calgary, Dublin).Eclipse 3.4, Toad 8.6












PROJECTS

  Project #1 : ARS-Service Catalogs 
Application
ARS-Service Catalogs 
ServiceNow - Involved in development activities of Service catalog, Incident management on ServiceNow platform.
Role
ServiceNow developer,
Description
Developing catalog items, Record producers, Order guides. Incident management implementation.The goal of the project was to understand the customer requirements and support the team.
User of application
All the employees
Development overview
Requirement gathering, development and presentations on a daily basis.
Skills
ServiceNow - Customizing Catalog items, Incident management implementation, Requests, RITM & Tasks, Record producers, Order guides, Client script, UI policy, Business rule. List collector, Approvals, Assignments, Notifications, Email template, Groups & Dictionary, SLA creation, implementation and tagging, Workflows.  
Javascript, HTML scripting.


  Project #2 : Employee Management System
Application
Employee Management System
Role
Java Developer
Description
Employee Management System is an application that offers maintaining the details of employees in an organization including their roles and responsibilities. The main modules are Login Module, Employee Module, Department Module, Security Module and validation. Login Module enables the employee/admin to enter the User name and Password depending on the role corresponding page will be shown by crossing security layer (SSL), validation and authentication of the user. Only Admin can able to access, create, edit and delete the particular employee using Employee Module and Employee Module enables admin to enter detail information of employee using Employee form, which reflects in the database and admin provides the particular Username and Password to particular employee.
Skills
Java,J2EE, Struts2.0,Hibenate 3.2, Oracle10g,Toad,

EDUCATION
•  Master of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering, NHCE Visvesvaraya  Technological University, Karnataka. (64%, 2014 Pass out)

• Bachelor of Engineering in Instrumentation Technology, BIET,  Visvesvaraya Technological University, Karnataka. (61%, 2010 Pass out)


Awards & Recognitions :
• Sys Admin certified.
• Took part in 2 days(24*7) SNOW training from ServiceNow on different modules of the platform, different regular training and KT sessions from different resources.
• Appreciations from clients, for innovative thinking, implementing cost reducing methodologies, meeting the deadlines, and for dedicated work.
• Business English Certificate Vantage (BEC Vantage), University of Cambridge.
• NCC B certification, CATC held at Hulkoti, Gadag


PERSONAL PROFILE
          Father Name	: Marulasiddappa A
Nationality	: Indian
Language Known 	: Kannada, English, Hindi.
          Address                                     	:  #64/b, 1st cross, 3rd floor, 									              pipeline road,Vijay Nagar 
						   Bangalore-40
						   





          
Date:
Place: Bangalore					Adarsha M


 Alok kumar Ranjan 
 
B.Tech in Information Technology with strong knowledge in java, Professional experience in j2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Web Service, Maven, MySql, JBoss
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: Savinirs Infotech private limited, Bangalore
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: INDIA
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 26 Sep 1987 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.40 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Other Engineering]
• Phone: 09738351172Verified
 
• Email: alokkumarranjan@yahoo.com Verified ,
ranjanalokkumar97@gmail.com
• Address: Alok kumar Ranjan
c/o- N.P.Mandal
vill+post-Basantpur
Supaul - 854340, BIRPUR - 854340
 
• Key Skills: Java( J2SE, J2EE ), Oracle, MySql, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, Web Service, Maven, jMeter, Swing, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 20a255a22c0ed87f80Last Active: 12-Oct-14Last Modified: 21-Aug-14

Objectives:
	To work in a progressive organization that incorporates varied spectrums of work & diversity, this endows consistency, competency & expertise in professional as well as social spheres, enabling collective excellence and technical growth, personal fulfillment with welcome attitude for new ideas and concepts to enhance the overall growth of the organization

Summary of Experience:
• 1+ year of IT experience in Java development.
• Hands on experience in Java technologies such as Hibernate, Struts, and Swing.
• Hands on experience in RFID/NFC enabled application development
• Experience in Performance testing of web application
• Experience in designing reports using Jasper iReport

Technical Summary:
Skills 

: Java, J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, AJAX,  JSON, Spring, Web-Services, Maven
  J-Query, HTML, jMeter, Java Swing
Tools
: My Eclipse, Eclipse, NetBeans, iReport
App Servers
: Apache Tomcat Enterprise
Platforms
: Windows XP/7/8
Databases:
: MySQL

Trainging/ Certification Summary :
Type
Location
Organised By
Duration
Java, J2EE, Spring, Web Services
Bhubaneswar
Interface Software
10 months
Oracle(pl/sql)
Bhubaneswar
Interface Software
3 months
DCA 
Kolkata
LCC
3 months

Professional Experience:
• Working as Software Engineer at Savinirs InfoTech Pvt Ltd, Bangalore since July 2013.

Educational Qualifications:
• Bachelor of Technology (B.tech) in Information technology with 71% from the Nalanda Institute of Technology/ Biju Patnayak University of Technology, Rourkela in 2012.

Projects worked on:


Java Swing Projects:
Project 1	: Sqenz
Technology	:  Java Swing, TCP/IP, JSSC for USB connection.
Role		: Developer

Project Description:
• Desktop Application used to Configure Sqenz RFID device.
• Sqenz is a RFID Reader device which is capable of reading and Writing RFID cards (like Mifare 1K,4k and Ultralight Cards) and also it can send the card info to Remote Http Server or TCP/IP server.
• Configuration can be done in both USB and TCP/IP mode.

Web Applications:
Project 1	: Inventory Management - SysDNA
Technology	:  Java, Struts2, Hibernate3, AJAX, J-Query,  Jasper Reports, MySQL.
Role		: Developer
Client		: Siddarth wines, Winebaron

Project Description:
• Inventory Management- SysDNA is a web based Resource Management, Sales and purchase application which provides simple and professional solution to the Industries. 
• It has the flexibility to be customized as per customer’s requirement. Also provide ability to track the inventory and create various kinds of reports.
• Generates Reports on Current Stock, Sales, Purchase and etc.

Project 2	: SRMS
Technology	: Java, Struts2, Hibernate3, AJAX, J-Query,  Jasper Reports, MySQL.
Role			: Developer
Client		: Savinirs Electronics

Project Description: 
• This includes creating service center, franchise & Employee for organization, supporting & tracking Job throughout its life cycle & Supporting Employee profile.
 
Project 3	: Online Share Trading (Academic project)
Technology	: Java, JSP, Struts2, JDBC, Oracle 10g
Role			: Team head
Client		: Academic project

Project Description:
• It is a web based application where one can search for broker, search for the company to purchase share, ordering to broker for sell/purchase of shares. Here broker reads the message and do his business of selling and purchasing of shares behalf of customer. Web Application to view the Purchase & Sales Voucher from all shops.
• Here admin manages the companies, broker, and customer information.
• Search of shares and their availability and order.
• Order Status – One can find the status of particular order and specified date.

Personal Information:
Date of Birth	:  26-09-1987
Father’s Name	:  Prof. N.P. Mandal
Mother’s Name	:  Vina kumari (Teacher)
Address		:   #2/26, Flat no.203,
		    3rd main, Maruthinagar,
		    Munireddy Block,
		    Madiwala, Bangalore-68.
Mobile		:   +91-97383 51172

Declaration:
		I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.

Date:

Place: Bangalore								 Alok kumar Ranjan

Alok kumar Ranjan                   	           Mail: alokkumarranjan@yahoo.com
Mob: +91 9738351172
                                                                      

	

Akhileshwar singh 
 
Akhileshwar singh, 2.10 years Experiance of jr.software Developer, corejava,j2ee,servlet,jdbc,jsp,html, Ajax javascript, ,Tomcate,netbean,glassfish,oracle
I current working in "Mavis Software services pvt ltd" I complited B-Tech 2011
 
 
• Current Designation: jr.softwaredeveloper
• Current Company: mavis software services pvt ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 18 Apr 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 10 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 3.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9916177029 Duplicate Number
 
• Email: akhileshwarsingh1986@gmail.com Verified
• Address: lakshmi PG Gents , mv papanna gurden opp
SGR COLLAGE,Mammekolala
Marathalli, post -Bangalore
560037,, Bangalore - 560037
 
• Key Skills: java,servlet,jdbc,jsp, j2ee ,xml, webservices, hibernet, struts,spring,oracle11g ,html,javascirpt,Ajax
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 58d1aaa030cf836254Last Active: 3-Oct-14Last Modified: 30-Sep-14

Akhileshwar Singh	  					
Lakshmi   PG Gents
MV   Papanna Garden  Opp.
SGR College, Munnekolala , Marathalli Bangalore 560037
Email    : akhilesh.java0.7@gmail.com
Mobile  : +91-9916177029                 

                         
Summary
                
➢ Having 2.9 Years of diversified experience in design, development and implementation of applications using Java/J2ee technologies.
➢ Experience in J2EE technologies Servlets, JSP & JDBC.
➢ Extensive experience in developing applications using Struts Framework.
➢ Good experience in database interaction using Hibernate.
➢ Having knowledge on Spring framework.
➢ Good Knowledge in java server side Programming and MVC-architecture.
➢ Having experience in working with Windows and UNIX operating Systems.
➢ Strong knowledge in Object Oriented concepts.
➢ Working knowledge on Tomcat, JBoss and NetBeans ,glassfish,.
➢ Knowledge on using  log4J, SVN, iReport,

Professional Experience

PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATIONS
    • Oracle Certified Associate (OCA 2009)-Oracle.
➢ Working as a Software Engineer with   Mavis Software Services Pvt. Ltd, Bangalore since OCT ’11 to till date.


Educational Qualification

➢ B-Tech(Information technology) from Biju Patnayak University  ,.Bhubneshwar , Orissa. In  2011


Technical Skills

Languages
 Java, J2ee
J2EE Technologies              
Jdbc, Servlets, JSP
Web Technologies              
HTML, XML, Java Script
Frameworks
Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Ajax,  
IDEs  
Eclipse,, NetBeans,
Tools  
SVN Log4j, iReport
Web  Servers     
Tomcat, 
Database
 Oracle 10g (SQL, PL/SQL)
Operating System               
  Windows 98/2000/XP















Project Details

Project # 1	

Title
Cavali Securities
Client
Cavali Company (Bali)
Duration
 oct’12 to March  13
Team Size
5
Role
Programmer
Technologies
Core java,Servets,JDBC,JSP,Struts,Hibernate,Oracle9i,
Weblogic, SVS,Eclipse

Description:    
                   The project is related to stock exchange. Cavali Company is the one of the security group of the Bali Stock Exchange in Bali. Currently Cavali Company’s business is working on the application developed in Forte language and now it is in need of up-gradation.
      The project involves all transactions related to securities. The process of exchange of shares can be done in two ways: directly through Cavali Company or clients of Cavali Company called as External users. If the process is through Cavali Company whole sole transaction is done internally in Cavali Company. If the process is through external user’s partial transaction is done at client and partial transaction is done internally in Cavali Company.
Responsibilities:
➢ Working on the technologies Java, Struts, Hibernate and JavaScript.
➢ Involved  hibernate  for retrieving the data from database.
➢ Involved in ORM tool Hibernate 3 to represent entities and fetching strategies for optimization

Project # 2                

Title
Cash Management and Automated Payments
Client
Protech Systems, USA.
Duration
May ’13 to 14 April date.
Team Size
5
Role
Developer
Technologies
Core java, Servlets, JSP, Tomcat,MySql, Eclipse
Description: 
                  CMAP is customized form of OrbiOne Cash which is a comprehensive, web based and integrated cash management solution done for Man Investments(UK) which helps in speedy and efficient cash management and optimization operations. CMAP broadly consist of four modules Cash Management, Payments, Reconciliation and Optimization. It automates payments between different banks, brokers, lending institutions and external counterparties. Other features include Auto reconciliation, Cash Optimization, Forward projection, Balance Capture, Report designing and generation.
Responsibilities:
➢ Developed JSP’s and Ajax for User Interaction.
➢ Involved  Servlet & jdbc  for retrieving the data from database.
➢ Involved in the Development of the Presentation module using HTML & validation by Java Script..
.

DECLARATION


       I hereby declare that the statements made above are true, complete and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.       


       
       
       
Date	:	                  		   	 (Akhileshwar singh)
Place	: BANGALORE                                                                        

ABHISHEK MINOCHA		E-mail: minochaabhishek@gmail.com
							Tel.No: +91-9873860846	   





SUMMARY

● Currently working with Mann India as Technical Lead.
● 6 years 3 months of experience in Java/ J2EE technologies. 
● Experience on high-level design, coding & software application development, testing & deployment and ensuring adherence to quality norms across the development & implementation process.
● Experience of interfacing with clients for requirement gathering and finalisation of technical specifications.
● Experience of project estimation & scheduling, resource allocation and interacting with team members to ensure smooth progress of project work. 
● Worked with senior management and business development teams on various project proposals and Proof of Concepts.



SKILLS

Programming	Java, JSP, SQL, PL/SQL
Frameworks	Struts 1.1, Struts 2.0, Hibernate, Spring
Web Technologies 	PHP, Java Script, VB Script
DBMS 		Oracle, SQL Server, MYSQL
Operating Systems	 	Windows XP/7, Linux Red Hat
Application Servers	 	Websphere, JBoss
Others				MQ Series, Maven, CVS, SVN, Tomcat
Job Functions 	Development, Designing, Code & Design Review, Defect Management & Fixing, Mentorship, Technical Guidance.



CURRENT PROFILE 

Organization		Mann India Pvt Ltd.
Project 		Simon (Seguros Bolivar, Colombia)
Duration 		October 2010 Onwards
Technologies 		Java, SOA, Struts 2.0, Sping FW, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Oracle

Description
The objective of SIMON project is to migrate existing functionality of the existing ‘TRONADOR’ system, built in Oracle Form 6i (Character Mode only) Technology and COBOL programs, into J2EE Technology.
The entire Tronador application is divided into four main modules (emission, claims, re-
insurances, products) which are being migrated in SIMON. Additional requirements include the introduction of referential integrity constraints into the SIMON DB. The project scope also includes improving, modifying and enhancing the functionalities offered by the existing system.

Responsibility as Technical Lead –
● Creating high level technical specifications for product requirements.
● Responsible for SDLC Planning and effort estimation
● Interfacing with clients for requirement gathering and finalisation of technical specifications
● Allocating work among team members and performing code reviews.
● Assuring deliverables adhere to software quality norms









PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE


1. Project - Nextgen POS Web Services
    CSC India , April 2010 to October 2010
   Technologies - Java, Web Services, SOA, Sping FW, Hibernate

POS WebServices exposes a number of generic POS functionalities as services so that clients using LIFECOMM - POS along with other life insurance products can invoke POS transactions and access LIFECOMM specific information from other front end applications.

   As Tech Lead and Designer was involved in  –
● Creating high level technical specifications for product requirements.
● Interfacing with clients for requirement gathering and finalisation of technical specifications
● Allocating work among team members and performing code reviews.
● Assuring deliverables adhere to software quality norms


2. Project - Nextgen General Ledger
     CSC India, July 2009 to March 2010
   Technologies - Java, JSP, Struts 1.1, Sping FW, Hibernate, SQL Server

This project implements the online transactions for General Ledger sub system of LIFECOMM in the Java based GUI system Nextgen. The transactions will be validated on the Java mid-tier and processing will be done during batch cycle.

   As Tech Lead and Designer was involved in  –
● Creating high level technical specifications for product requirements.
● Responsible for SDLC Planning and effort estimation
● Interfacing with clients for requirement gathering and finalisation of technical specifications
● Allocating work among team members and performing code reviews.
● Assuring deliverables adhere to software quality norms


3. Project - Data Audit and MVC conversion
    CSC India, January 2008 to June 2009
   Technologies - Java, JSP, Struts 1.1, Hibernate, SQL Server

Data Audit enhancement provides for the auditing and verification of policy related data stored on the NextGen database to the policy data stored on the equivalent VSAM files within the LIFE-COMM mainframe environment. The purpose of MVC conversion was to migrate the NGPOS subsystem of Nextgen to a more robust Model View Controller (MVC) architecture making code easier to maintain.
As Tech Lead and Designer was involved in -
● Creating and implementing technical specifications for product requirements.
● Interfacing with clients for requirement gathering and finalisation of technical specifications
● Allocating work among team members and performing code reviews.
● Assuring deliverables adhere to software quality norms


4. Project - Nextgen Base and DB2 migration
	CSC India, January 2007 to December 2007
     Technologies - Java, JSP, Servlets, FSConnect, MVC, SQL Server, DB2

Nextgen is the web based GUI system for LIFECOMM which is a Life Insurance product developed by CSC. NextGen uses a web browser-based, graphical user interface (UI) that executes LIFE-COMM on-line and batch edits at the point of data entry.  It provides an user-friendly front-end supporting cycle transactions either in batch or real-time mode, as well as, new business transactions currently found in LIFE-COMM. It provides a user friendly environment and the user does not need to enter complicated transactions as is the case with LIFECOMM – CICS.

As Developer was involved in -
● Implementing low level designs and detailed designs of product requirements.
● Interfacing with clients for finalisation of technical specifications
● Working on base system issues for Nextgen Lifecomm base.
● Assuring delivarables adhere to project quality norms.


5. Project - Sapient Approach
    Sapient Corporation, September 2006 to January 2007
    Technologies - Java, JSP, Servlets, AndroMDA, MYSQL, JBoss Server

Sapient approach is the software methodology developed in Sapient. It is based on the Agile methodology. The tools track builds and manages various software methodology tools for use within Sapient Corporation and for licensing to other corporations.
A common platform is being developed for all the tools which have been built and also a metrics tools is being added.

As a Developer was involved in -
● Implementing and making low level designs of product requirements.
● Performing code reviews of code and test specifications of other requirements.
● Using new technologies and new approaches in the project which can then be successfully replicated on other projects in the company.


6. Project - BT.COM-BEA
    Tech Mahindra , July 2006 to Sep 2006 			
Technologies - Java, JSP, Servlets, Oracle, Weblogic Portal

Bt.com is the online portal for BT Retail. It provides information about services provided by BT Retail and other facilities for bill payment, fault reporting, etc.

As a Developer was involved in -
● Implementing change requests for the purpose of platform migration from BV platform to BEA platform.
● Performing code reviews of code and test specifications of other requirements.
● Working on various Proof of Concepts.


7. Project - eCo Repair/Fast Repair
    Tech Mahindra , June 2005 to July 2006 		
Technologies - Java, JSP, Servlets, Oracle, SQL, Visual Basic 6.0

eCo Repair/Fast Repair is a repairs system which is a part of BT Wholesale systems. It includes a tool called Web-Stats which maintains various statistics of fault management.

As a Developer was involved in -
● Proposing low level design and implementing new developments during each release cycle.
● Giving live demonstration of new requirements to client and interacting with solution designer and customer for finalizing design of requirements. 
● Performing code reviews and integrating code for various requirements so that system testing can be performed.
● Providing support during Customer Acceptance Testing.


PROFESSIONAL ACHIEVEMENTS 

● Received FSG Keys to Success award for my work in LifeComm PSA. (CSC India)
● Awarded rolling clock by Group Head for work in the release for Mutual Trust. (CSC India)
● Received CSC Accolades for work in the General Ledger release. (CSC India)
● Awarded On-spot cash award accolade by Group Head for my work in Nextgen base. (CSC India)
● Nominated for Employee of Quarter in CSC for the Apr-June 07 quarter.
● 3 months onsite experience at Austin with base team. Worked on architecture change as designer and co-ordinated offshore resources as well.
● Awarded Wholesale Product Assurance Award by BT for my work in eCo repair/Fast Repair. (Tech Mahindra)
● Domain certification LOMA-280 for life insurance


INDUSTRIAL TRAINING

Organization		TechSpan India Ltd.
Project Name 		Star Alliance
Duration 		June 2004 to July 2004
Technologies 		Core Java and TeamSite
Description
Implementation of Content management system for Star Alliance website where regional sites for two new locations were added to the main site.


EDUCATION

● B.Tech - Computer Science , Amity School Of Engineering And Technology, Delhi (Batch of 2005)
      Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University
      Percentage - 76.4%

● Class XII - AISSCE, Apeejay School ,Sheikh Sarai - Delhi
      Board - CBSE , Percentage - 87.4% 

● Class X  - AISSCE, Apeejay School ,Sheikh Sarai - Delhi
      Board - CBSE , Percentage - 84.2% 



ACADEMICS & EXTRA-CURRICULAR

● Involved with a few NGO’s since College. Previously involved with ‘Shakuntalam’ and currently involved with ‘Centre for Civil Society’ on various seminars and campaigns.
● Attending a basic course of Spanish from FIDESCU.
● Awarded the Science Talent Scholarship by the Apeejay school group
● Received a certificate of Merit for being among top 0.1% of successful candidates in English Course– A in X standard (C.B.S.E board).
● Summer project on integrated web browser and email client was chosen to represent our college in SOFTEC (International technical festival for NUCEF, Lahore).
● I was awarded a certificate of appreciation by IBM for my work in a series of workshops on DB2 and Websphere.
● Organizing committee member for Amitech-04 (College annual Tech Fest) and also organized that year’s hardware quiz.
● Active member of IEEE Delhi branch and was also involved in the IBM developer community



PERSONAL INFORMATION

Date of Birth		22nd Mar 1983
Nationality		Indian
Permanent Address 	M-11/B, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi – 110017
Languages		English, Hindi
Hobbies 		Avid stock market investor, Travelling, Movie buff
Passport		Available

Amit Kumar 
 
PHP developer
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: Silicon india
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Hyderabad,Kolkata
• Functional Area: IT Software - Other
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 09 Mar 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.20 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: MCA [Computers]
• Phone: 1234567890 Contactable
 
• Email: amitbunty2052@gmail.com Verified
• Address: #177 ,3rd cross, kundalahalli colony,
itpl main road,bangalore-560037, Bengaluru - 560037
 
• Key Skills: PHP,sql,ajax,smarty
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 7129fa3a7383137982Last Active: 16-Oct-14Last Modified: 15-Sep-14

RESUME
                                                                                                      
                                                                                                        		     AMIT KUMAR
                                                                                                      		     amitbunty2052@gmail.com
                                                                                                          	     Mobile No.-7760903473   Specialization: -         Master of Computer Application                  

Career Objective: - “To utilize my technical and management skills for achieving the target and developing the best performance in the esteemed organization. I would like to implement my innovative ideas, skills and creativity for accomplishing the Goals.”


Academic Qualification:

Course
Institution
Year of passing
Board/University
     Marks%

MCA
CMR Institute of Technology, Bangalore
2013
VTU
75 %(till 5th sem)
BCA
Asansol Engineering College, Asansol(W.B)
2010
WBUT
79.8%
CLASS XII
K.L.S College,Nawadah(BIHAR)
2007
BSEB
65.67%
CLASS X
Gandhi Inter School,Nawadah(BIHAR)
2005
BSEB
74.14%


Technical Knowledge:

• Programming Languages			:,HTML,CSS, JAVA SCRIPT, PHP,JSP,
  SQL, Basics of C, C++, JAVA, VB.NET.
• Tools used					: Turbo-C, Visual Studio, Dream weaver 						             CS5, Net Beans IDE7.2.1, Adobe Photoshop.

• Operating Systems worked on		: WINDOWS XP/VISTA/7/8, UBUNTU.

CERTIFICATION COMPLETED:

• IBM Certified Associate System Administrator-Lotus Notes and Domino 8.
• IBM Certified Associate Developer in RAD For Web Sphere Software V6.0.
• Project Based Training on VB.NET by CMC Academy.
• Workshop On Search Engine By GURU PREVAILS
• Cyber Forensics Certified By KEONICS Lab and MANDAMUS.



PROJECT   UNDERTAKEN: 


1. Project Name			:	“Lightspeed Mobile Lab” (www.lightspeedml.com)
    
   Description                               :	Lightspeed ML is a Mobile Technology focused company   specialized in Mobile Application Software Turnkey development Services primarily for Android and iPhone / iOS platforms. LightspeedML offers mobile application development services for Android and iPhone / iOS platforms. 
	
   Language                                  :            PHP, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, HTML, SQL, SMARTY.

   Tools                                         :           	Adobe Dreamweaver CS5, PHP Editor, Tunnelier.







2. Project Name			:	“Jobs and Resume Portal”
    
   Description                               :	In the current Competitive Environment, it is challenging to
	Find Suitable jobs for job seekers as well as for company also it is difficult to find out the Perfect Candidates. When it comes to explore the Job through Website, The Website should be interactive enough and able to give proper response and should have list of all the latest and upcoming jobs, which increases the probability of jobseekers to get jobs soon and provides better opportunity and future to them. The main goal of this project to enhance, simplify and reduce the recruitment. Cycle. This project is for employers as well as for jobseekers respectively to get better job.  
	
   Language                                  :            PHP, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, HTML, SQL, SMARTY.

   Tools                                         :           	Adobe Dreamweaver CS5, PHP Editor, Tunnelier.






3. Project Name		: 	“Transportation Portal.” 

   Description			:	Goal Of The Project Is To Provide An Application Which      			Allows Residents And Visitors Of A City To Find Out 			            More About Transportation Related Aspects About The 			            City. Ex-Route Search, Fares and Passes, Types of Buses,
				Customer Registration and Feedback.

   Language			:	JSP, HTML, CSS, JAVA SCRIPT, SQL, SERVLET.

   Tools			:	Adobe Dreamweaver CS5, Net Beans, WAMPSERVER.





4. Project Name                          :             “Hospital Management System”


     Description                            :              The Goal of the project is to keep records of                                                                                                               
                                                                   Patients, doctors and all other hospital employee. We assign      
                                                                   Doctors to patient according to their disease and give   
                                                                   Facility. We also do billing after leaving the hospital.

     Tools			:	 Visual studio2005 (vb.net).





4. Project Name                          :             “Inventory Management System”


     Description                            :              The Goal of the project is to keep records of
					 Products, Their Capacity and amount. We also Keep Records of 
					 Products Transaction amount and bills.                                                                                                          
                                                                   

     Tools			:	 Visual studio2005 (vb.net).









Extra-Curricular Activity:

• Coordinator in the inter-college fest “RESOLUTION”, held in the year 2011. 


Interest and Hobbies:

Interest: - Taking Part in Various Activities, Helping Others, Making Friends.
Hobbies: - Music, Playing games, watching movies, Reading Books.


Personal Profile:

Name
Amit Kumar
Date of  birth
09th March 1990.
Nationality
Indian
Gender
Male
Marital status
Unmarried
Languages known
English,Hindi,Bengali
Strengths
Sincerity, keen learning ability, hardworking and friendly nature.
Present address
 #177,3rd cross ,Kundalahalli Colony,ITPL main road,     Bangalore-560037
Permanent address
C/O. Krishna Prasad, Navin Nagar –Nawada (805110), House No:-0403, BIHAR.


Place: Bangalore                                                                 				Signature                                                    

       AMIT KUMAR
                                                                              
Amit Mahajan
amitm83@gmail.com |M +91 9986713400

SUMMARY

A dynamic professional with 6 years of experience in the full life cycle of the software development process including requirement elicitation, prototyping, proof of concept, design, testing and maintenance. Four years of onsite experience in Japan interacting one on one with Client and managing the offshore team.

CAREER COUNTOR

Company – Infosys  Ltd.
➢ Since Oct’10 Technology Lead
➢ Oct’08 to Oct’10 Technology Analyst          
➢ Nov’05 to Oct’08 Software Engineer

TECHINICAL

Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP 1.4)

                     Languages:
J2EE, PL/SQL , Perl ,Shell Scripting
                    Framework: 
Struts
Database:
Oracle , SYBASE
                           API:    
JSP, Servlets, Java Beans
Systems:    
Windows, Unix, Linux
Others:
Eclipse , Tomcat , Weblogic, Autosys , Maven, CVS , SVN , JIRA ,Codestriker , MS Excel ,MS Infopath


MAJOR PROJECTS HANDLED

06
Project Name
Institutional Client Services (CSW)




Client
Goldman Sach Japan

Description of the project
CSW stores Client Information like trades, positions and balances. It’s the main Client Subledger for the Firm generating daily and monthly statements for clients, generating daily status reports, doing reconciliations etc. 



Role                      
:
Onsite Lead, Japan

Responsibility
:
The following are some of the details of my responsibility over the period I was working in CSW

1. Proposing improvements to the system.
2. Batch Monitoring and User Support.
3. Software Release Management – Acting as Install Meister.
4. Upgrading End of Life Hardware and Software
5. Performance improvement. Included PL/SQL Tuning
6. Training new joiners and handing over tasks to L1.
7. Doing UAT’s for new markets-  Singapore Exchange UAT.
8. Team Management and Documentation.


Duration
:
From July 2007                                                  To: September 2011

Software
: 
Linux, Actuate, Perl , SYBASE, SVN ,Autosys


05
Project Name
FUSO IT Budget Controlling  System                                                                    




Client:
Mitsubishi FUSO Japan

Description of the project: -

The project streamlined the budgeting and controlling system of IT Department to improve upon accuracy and bring in transparency in the system. Previously Fuso was using excel sheets and access database for their IT budget and controlling and faced many issues. Hence a need of developing an end to end Budget formulation and controlling tool.

Role                      
:
 Team Lead

Responsibility
:
The following are some of the details of my responsibility at each phase during the course of the project.
Project Activities:-
1. Database Design and High Level Design Preparation.
2. Developing a Custom Framework for the project based on Struts.
3. Coding of DB object– SQL & stored procedures.
4. Software Installation and hardware setup activities.
5. Testing of other modules and Defect fixing. 
6. Preparation of Database and other installation documents for configuring and installing activities onsite.
Team management Activities :- 
1. Updating the status of project to the project manager.
2. Regular meeting with fellow team members and checking their progress. 
3. Mentoring new SETs regarding standard processes and technical details

Duration
:
From : April 2007                                                   To: May 2007

Operating System
:
Unix , Windows

Software
:
SQL 2000 , Struts, WebSphere 

04
Project Name
Capital Services Security Enhancement                                                                       




Client:
Capital Services Japan

Description of the project: -

The project was an enhancement to an existing Capital Services application SCOREPLUS. As part of my job I had to provide user with Security Screens. It enhanced the security of the application by proving access based on the users access level and eliminating the need to make changes into the database directly.

Role                      
:
 Developer

Responsibility
:
The following are some of the details of my responsibility at each phase during the course of the project.

Project Activities:-
1. Detailed Design Preparation.
2. Coding of the module- Java screens, stored procedures, triggers and PL/SQL
3. Responsible for “Knowledge Management” Activities in the Project.
4. Quality requirements which need to be followed throughout the project as required and specified by Infosys.
Onsite Activities:-
1. Testing of other modules and Defect fixing. 
2. UAT Support.


Duration

From: October 2006                                           To: March 2007

Operating System

Windows 

Software
:
Oracle 9i, Struts, Weblogic 


03
Project Name
SFDC Report Generation Utility                                                                         




Client:
Cisco Japan 

Description of the project: -

Work undertaken under this project was to develop a utility tool for generating Forecast and Claim reports for sales bureau. The tool extracts and organizes data from different systems viz. SHARE, BREES, SFDC for generating those reports. This tool also has separate User Management function where Admin can add, delete and update internal users.

Role                      
:
 Developer

Responsibility
:
The following are some of the details of my responsibility at each phase during the course of the project.

Project Activities:-
1. Requirement and Information Gathering.
2. Coding.
3. Coding of DB object– SQL & stored procedures.
4. Testing.
5. Handling the production staging process.  
6. Maintenance and Support

Duration

From: April 2006                                               To: October 2006

Operating System

Windows 

Software
:
Oracle 9i, Struts, Tomcat server


02
Project Name
Business Intelligence POC                                                                          




Client:
Capital Services Japan

Description of the project: -

Cognos is a Web based business intelligence solution with integrated reporting, analysis, scorecarding and event management features. As part of my job I developed sample reports using Cognos. These reports eventually lead to a full fledged project that came to Infosys later.

Role                      
:
 Developer

Responsibility
:
The following are some of the details of my responsibility at each phase during the course of the project.

 Project Activities:-
1. Installation of Cognos.
2. Report Generation using Cognos.

Duration

From: February 2006                                           To: March 2006

Operating System

Windows 

Software
:
Cognos 8


01
Project Name
Leading Practices                                                                                             




Client:
Cisco US

Description of the project: -

The project was an enhancement to an existing Cisco application Cisco Knowledge Connection. I had to add an extra functionality to enable the user to nominate a document as a Leading Practice. Any document nominated as a Leading Practice has to go through the following workflow steps:  Screening, Reviewing, Formatting and Publishing before it is made a Leading Practice.

Role                      
:
 Developer

Responsibility
:
The following are some of the details of my responsibility at each phase during the course of the project.

Project Activities:-
1. Coding of the module assigned.
2.   Testing

Duration

From: December 2005                                          To: January 2006

Operating System

Windows 

Software
:
Oracle 9i, Struts, Tomcat server
        
ACHIEVEMENTS

➢ Achieved highest annual appraisal rating for three continuous years at Infosys.
➢ Awarded Infosys Spot Award in 2010 for outstanding performance in client interfacing.
➢ Promoted to Analyst role within three years at Infosys and Lead role in 5 years.


SCHOLASTICS
Duration
Qualification
College/School
2001-2005
B.Tech in Computer Science Engineering
Ambedkar Institute of Technology, Delhi affiliated to GGSIPU (78%)
2000-2001
12th CBSE board
Ahlcon Public School, Delhi (73%)
1998-1999
10th CBSE board
Cambridge School, NOIDA (89%)


EXTRA CURRICULAR

➢ Headed the Intra College Cultural Fest at college (2005).
➢ Won third position in National level Website designing competition held in GTBIT Delhi (2005).
➢ Won second position in intra college C/C++ Programming competition (2005).
➢ Organized Inter College C/C++ Programming Competition at College (2004).


PERSONAL FORTE

➢ Date of Birth – 8th June 1983
➢ Permanent Address: G-137, Preet Vihar , Delhi
➢ Current Address: K-336,1st B Cross,1st A Main, Koramangala 8th Block, Bengaluru



Ananta Prasad Behera 
 
software engineer having 1.10 year experience in HTML5,CSS3,JAVASCRIPT,JQUERY,BOOTSTRAP3,PSD TO HTML,WORDPRESS,j2SE,J2EE,SERVLET,JSP,HIBERNATE,STRUTS
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: UDI SYSTEM
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai,Hyderabad
• Functional Area: IT Software - Other
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 05 May 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 10 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.05 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Instrumentation]
• Phone: 8123141996Verified
 
• Email: ananta.prasad@yahoo.com Verified
• Address: l-107,baramunda H.B.colony, Bhubaneswar - 751003
 
• Key Skills: C , C++ , J2SE,J2EE,JSP,SERVELET,HiBERNATE, STRUTS,HTML5 , CSS3 , JAVA SCRIPT, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP3,PSD TO HTML,WORDPRESS, PHP , MY SQL , PHOTOSHOP ,Basics of HTML5 AND CSS3,PLC , SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 400b193d7b08d4b019Last Active: 16-Oct-14Last Modified: 16-Oct-14

	
ANANTA PRASAD BEHERA
Mobile: +91-8123141996
E-mail: ananta.prasad@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE

To  use my analytical, conceptual and technical skills to strive towards excellence in a constantly evolving and intellectually simulating organization.

SYNOPSIS
        
➢ 1.9  years of experience in JAVA and web designing technologies.
➢ Worked on various projects using JAVA, SERVELET, JSP, HIBERNATE, PHP, HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, Mysql , Oracle .
➢ Good knowledge in OOPS, C. C++.
➢ Worked on projects involving responsive design and Knowledge of bootstrap3.
➢ Basic knowledge about Photoshop cs5.
➢ Comfortable with content management systems like Joomla and Word press.
➢ Knowledge of PSD to Word press conversion and Word press Customization also.
➢ Familiar with Cpanel, Parallel Plesk and File Zilla.
➢ Good knowledge in Hospital Management system.
➢ Having experience in Social Media Marketing.

EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION

➢ B.Tech. in Applied Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering from KEC (BPUT) with 7.78 CGPA
➢ CHSE from Rajdhani College with 70%
➢ HSCE from Govt. High school Unit 1 with 82.14%

TECHNICAL SKILLS

➢ Operating systems  : Windows XP, Windows-07
➢ Software package   : Microsoft Office, Photoshop CS5
➢ JAVA Technologies : CORE JAVA, JSP, SERVLET, HIBERNATE
➢  Languages		  : C, C++, J2SE,J2EE, PHP
➢ Industrial Training   : BSNL
➢ Additional Course   : PLC , VLSI
➢ Web Tool                  : HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Basics of Jquery
➢ Open source            :  Wordpress, Joomla

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Company       : UDI SYSTEM
Date	            : July ’14  to  Till Date.
Designation   : Software Engineer.	

Project: BigTapp Analytics
URL      : http://bigtappanalytics.com/
•  Team Size 	         : 2
•  Technology           : HTML,CSS,JAVA SCRIPT,WORDPRESS
• Responsibilities: 
• Full Website design.

Project :  i1 properties
URL      :  http://i1properties.com/  
•  Team Size 	         : 3
•  Technology           : Html, Css, Javascript
• Website Design with enquiry tab design and also use other java script functionalty. 

Project:  Idea on
URL       : http://ideaoninc.com/
•  Team Size 	      : 4
•  Technology         : HTML, CSS ,JAVASCRIPT, WORDPRESS

On-going Project: Lapalazzo
URL                        : http://www.lapalazzo.in/
•  Team Size 	         : 3
•  Technology         : HTML5 , CSS ,JAVASCRIPT
• Responsibilities: website Design using java script functionality.

Company       : Sulopa Solutions
Date	           : January ’13 to  June ‘14.
Designation   : Programmer Analyst.	

Project: Shri Jagannath Clinic and Diagnostic Centre
URL    : http://jagannathdiagnostic.com/
•  Team Size 	         : 2
•  Technology           : Html, Css, Javascript
• Responsibilities: 
• Design the assigned pages with HTML, CSS and JAVA SCRIPT.
• Fixing bugs related to assigned modules.
Project: Doctor Website Integrated With Hospital Management System
URL      : http://drravinursinghome.in/  
•  Team Size 	         : 6
•  Technology            : Html, Css, Javascript, PHP , My Sql
• Hospital management system is a software in which they can track every details of hospital.
• Responsibilities: Design the website with HTML,CSS and JAVA SCRIPT. Re-design the UI part for Software and also edit Some PHP code and test that software.

Project: Kalp Group
URL       : http://kalpgroup.co.in/
•  Team Size 	       : 4
•  Technology         : HTML, CSS ,JAVASCRIPT, WORDPRESS
• Responsibilities   : This project has 6 sub projects.Design the website with HTML,CSS and JAVA SCRIPTS.

Project    : Goal
URL          : http://goal.on2itonline.co.uk/
•  Team Size 	       : 3
•  Technology         : HTML, CSS ,JAVASCRIPT, WORDPRESS 
• Responsibilities   : Word press customization and redesign the plug-in.


 EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
➢ An active participant in various sports events & cultural events organized in and around my college. 
➢ I organize different events in college &  outside of the college.
➢ I also make one platform for all talents i.e. www.talentriser.com

HOBBIES
➢ Listening to music,  Playing cricket , Try to do some new thing or new idea
➢ Visiting new places , Making new friends, Active member in social Media

PERSONAL PROFILE
•  Name – Ananta Prasad Behera
•  Father’s Name - Sri .Priya Ranjan Behera
•  Gender - Male
•  Date of Birth – 05  May 1991
•  Languages Known - Odia, Hindi, English

DECLARATION

      I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct to my knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above mentioned particulars.

Place :  Bangalore                                                                        Ananta Prasad Behera	                                                                  Date  : 

Not Intr ??? Anees KA 
 
Java/J2EE Programmer with over 2 years of experience in the design and implementation of object-oriented systems.
 
 
• Current Designation: Java
• Current Company: Searching job
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai,Hyderabad
• Functional Area: IT Software - System Programming
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 01 May 1988 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 
• Annual Salary: Rs 0.70 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: M.Tech [Electronics/Telecommunication]
• Phone: 918123152328Verified
 
• Email: anees.kaslam@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Bangalore, Bangalore - 560001
 
• Key Skills: J2EE,J2SE,Hibernate,Struts,Sql/Plsql
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 002b69d336f6258508Last Active: 29-Sep-14Last Modified: 26-Sep-14

Anees K A
Email:anees.kaslam@gmail.com
Cell:-+918123152328


PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

• Jr Java/J2EE Programmer with over 2 years of experience in the design and         implementation of object-oriented systems.
• Good knowledge on object-oriented programming concepts.
• Strong emphasis and in-depth knowledge of  Java, JDBC, Servlets , JSP, Struts
• Good exposure on Apache Struts Framework and MVC architecture.
• Efficiency in using different types of web and application servers. 
• Experience using J2EE components including Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Beans, JDBC and Java Servlets.
• Experience in Eclipse, NetBeans, MyEclipse IDE’s for Java programming.
• Supported the system 24x7. Ability to work beyond regular hours.
• Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

• Worked as Software Engineer for Chloros technologies, Bangalore from September 2010-October 2011
• Worked as Software Engineer for SLK Software, Bangalore from August 2009-September 2010

QUALIFICATION

M-Tech in Communication Systems Engineering from JNTU Anantapur.
B-Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering from JNTU Anantapur.


TECHNICAL SKILLS
Operating System		: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP
Languages			: Java, SQL, PL/SQL
Web Technologies		: HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, XML, AJAX
Frameworks			: Struts 1.2, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 2.5
Database/RDBMS		: Oracle 9i, MYSQL	       
Servers 			: Web server:-Tomcat 5.0
                                                   Application server:-Weblogic 9, Jboss 4.5
Application Build Tool	: Apache ANT
Development Tools		: Eclipse, NetBeans, MyEclipse
 PROJECT#1
Title		: Enterprise Resources (ES)
Client		: confidential
Team Size	: 7
Organization   : Chloros Technologies.
Role		: Java/J2EE Developer
Duration	: Sep 2010-Oct 2011 

Project Description:
                  Enterprise Resource Planning systems integrate (or) attempt to integrate all the data and process of an organization into a unified system. A key ingredient of most ERP systems is the use of a unified database to store data for various system modules. For example, in any organization there are different departments like Administrative level,
Manager level, customer level, inventory, etc, the main aim is to integrate the different departments and retrieve the data and made communication between them. My project is online project for that each and every department have login page.

Responsibilities:
• Developed Hibernate DAO components.
• Developed Struts Action Classes.
• Involved in form validation using Struts.
• Developed JSP’s as per requirement.
• JSP along with HTML were used to control the client view.
• Developed Servlets that translates interactions with the JSP pages into actions to be performed by the DAOs. 
• Architect the workflow of the whole project using various design patterns like MVC, J2EE Patterns were implemented.
Platform/Technologies worked:  Java, J2ee, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Java Script, Java Bean, HTML, MyEclipse, Weblogic Application server, JDBC.

➢ PROJECT # 2
Title                        : APE (Access Pricing Engine) 
Client                     : confidential
Team Size              : 5
Organization         : SLK Software
Role                        : Java/J2EE Developer
Duration                 : Jan 2010-Aug 2010

Project Description:
            APE is a web-based application used by the BT Sales team to request Access line prices for various BT products. The user submits a request with the site, product and speed information and if the pricing information for those details is available in the database, the price is generated automatically. If the pricing information is not available in the database, the user is given an option to submit the request to the Access Front Line staff. Then the Front Line staff processes the request manually and the quote is presented to the user. For the details regarding availability of product at different locations, the APE database gets a feed from cap man via the Sales Catalogue. The following data is fed from Sales Catalogue to APE. Product availability at different location Pops (Point of Presence), Product availability, interface types APE is accessed through the GS Portal. Anyone with a web browser, internet and a GS portal login can use APE with End-User privileges.

Responsibilities:
• The system was designed according to J2EE specifications.
• Developed Struts Action class.
• Involved in Form validation using Struts.
• Developed persistence logic.
• Architect the workflow of the whole project using various design patterns like MVC. J2EE Patterns were implemented.
• Developed JSP’s as per requirement

Platform/Technologies worked:  Java, J2ee, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Java Script, Java Bean, HTML, MyEclipse, Weblogic Application server, JDBC.

➢ PROJECT #3
Title		    : Receivables Management System (RMS)
Client		    : confidential
Team Size	    : 7
Organization	    : SLK Software
Role		    : Java/J2EE Developer
Duration	    : Aug 2009-Jan 2010

Project Description:
          Receivables Management System (RMS) is one of the modules of the CashPro Online Portal. RMS provides access to lockbox reports that include check and document images, as well as credit card payments.  View payment information across multiple lockboxes, date ranges, and payment types via easy-to-use reports. Search payment information using any of the data elements in the payments as key filters.  Create, edit, and save customized lockbox reports that fit your company needs. The reports generated can be emailed, print and downloaded in CSV format. View images with an enhanced viewer that allows you to enhance the image for easier viewing and navigation.

Responsibilities:
• The system was designed according to J2EE specifications.
• Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. 
• DAOs were used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML were used to control the client view. 
• Implemented the Persistence logic i.e.; JDBC logic.
• Developed JSP’s as per requirement.

Platform/Technologies worked:  Java, J2ee, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, MyEclipse, Weblogic Application server, JDBC.

MR. ANIK KUMAR NANDY						
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Mail to: aniknandy@gmail.com     	                                                                          ADDRESS:
Mobile No. 09830492026	Flat no. 2C, Basistha II, Saptorshi Apt., 23/C, A.C. Sarkar Road, Dakshineswar, Kolkata 700076
Passport No: F2212371
NSR Registration Number (ITPIN) is: 671024045180
________________________________________________________________________________

OBJECTIVE

Looking for a good position to show my skills and abilities in the IT industry that Offers Professional growth while being resourceful, innovative and flexible.

PERSONAL SKILL
 
Comprehensive problem solving abilities, ability to deal with people diplomatically, willingness to learn, team facilitator.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (6.8 years)

(1)  Currently 2 years working in IBM India Pvt. Ltd., Kolkata
(2). 3.6 years working experience in NIIT Technologies Ltd., Kolkata
(3). 8 Months working experience in Elogix Software Pvt. Ltd., Kolkata
(4). 6 Months working experience in MindEdge Solutions, Kolkata

TECHNICAL SUMMARY

Languages:
Core Java, J2EE (EJB, JSP, Servlet, Java Beans).


Frameworks:                                      
Struts, Hibernate, Spring (IBM training, no hands on exp.).


Software Design Language:
Unified Modeling Language (UML), Design Patterns.


Additional Software:
RSA 7.5(Rational Software Architect for WebSphere), RTC 2.0(IBM Rational Team Concert), JUnit, IBM RAD V6.0.0, Eclipse 3.4, Visual Source Safe, Clear Quest, Microsoft Visio, Enterprise Architect, SAP NetWeaver Developer Studio.


Database:                            
Microsoft SQL Server 8.0, MySQL, DB2, ORACLE.


Operating System:
Unix, Dos, Windows 98,200,NT.


Server:                                         
IBM’s Websphere 6.1 Server, BEA’s Weblogic6.1 Server, Tomcat Server.


EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

(1). Project Title: IFPS (MMAPS)
Client: (IBM Inc USA.)
Duration: 01/11/2009 to till date
Location: Offshore, IBM India Pvt. Ltd., Kolkata India.
Objective: MMAPS - Maintenance Measurement and Planning System provides a central location for the review of financial, technical, and maintenance delivery performance. This site combines the reporting functions of eBusplans and SSDQMF, and the analysis and forecasting tools previously available from NS-Chart. MMAPS brings together in one database application the information needed to manage Maintenance and Warranty Services. 
IFPS can be broadly classified as under
1. Inventory
2. Revenue
3. Workload Indexes
4. Hours
5. Parts
6. Cost
7. Control Tables
8. SPR Assignments
9. Reports 
Role: Initial phase capture functional requirements from the onside team, creating new tasks in RTC and made estimation for new deliverables. In the development phase I was responsible for create or updating design documents, coding, and integration of code. I was responsible for any environmental issue and also responsible for ensuring timely deliveries, maintaining code standards, co-ordination and interaction with US team. Testing phase I was responsible for creating different test scenarios to test the modules after integration. After successfully testing properly documented all results in JUnit format. Creating blue sheets against each deliverables. Proper documentation was done so as to help in maintaining the code. Participate private liquid competitions and own four competitions.
Technology: Java, J2EE, Velocity, jUnit, Struts, Hibernate, SVN, RTC3.0.1 (IBM Rational Team Concert), RSA 8.0.3(Rational Software Architect for WebSphere), Design Patterns, GENO, Agile etc.

(2). Project Title: INFOCO (Article price management application for shops)
Client: Colruyt (Belgium)
Duration: 01/11/2008 to 21/10/2009. 
Location: Offshore, NIIT Technologies Limited, Kolkata India.
Objective: INFOCO is software division of Colruyt. Primary objective of the project is supporting the ‘Retail chain’ to improve their functioning. The technologies used in INFOCO project are Java, J2EE for web based applications and Mainframes. Infoco project has four divisions depending on the functionalities of retail business – Purchase, Logistics, Shops and Application support.  Purchase handles application required for proper implementation and maintenance of pricing of articles from purchase price till delivery .Colruyt punch line is ‘lowest price’ so the pricing stands very important during daily working in a shop. Logistics project handles the maintenance of stocks in warehouses as well as distribution of required stocks in the shops. Shops projects are concerned with point-of-sales and customer relation management in a shop. Stock management, client satisfaction applications for example ordering articles through kiosks and payments through a touch screen applications, so that customers don’t have to wait in a long queue as well as applications for cash management, article management, billing which help in smooth functioning of a shop are managed by shops division. Application support handles all the technical queries generated during development of an application as well as providing support in training and development. 
Role: I worked as a senior software developer.
Technology: Java, J2EE, JSP, IBM RAD V6.0.0, Struts like Colruyt framework, IDMS, UML, UNIX.

(3). Project Title: PASS-BUS
Client: Public Transport Division (PTD), Melbourne, Victoria (Australia)
Duration: 08/02/2008 to 24/09/2008 as a Senior Software Engineer
Location: Onsite, NIIT Technologies Limited, Melbourne Australia.
Objective: The co-ordination and monitoring of all public transport services within Victoria is the responsibility of the Public Transport Division, within the Department of Transport. PTD manages contracts and franchise agreements on behalf of the Government for the provision by private operators of train, tram, bus and ferry services. The Train and Tram Services Branch is responsible for managing contracts with operators of metropolitan train, interstate train, metropolitan tram and country train and coach services. 
The Bus Services Branch is responsible for the management of contracts with operators who provide “regular passenger services’ including school bus services, metropolitan and country regular passenger bus services, Night Rider bus services, V/Line Private Marketed coach services and the Stony Point to French Island/Phillip Island ferry service.
The PASS BUS application enables PTD to manage Bus Services in a secure and highly auditable framework. The PASS-BUS application comprises of mainly five client/server modules.
1. Involved Party
2. Contract Management
3. Costing & Indexation
4. Payments 
5. System Administration

Involved Parties are legal entities involved in a contractual relationship with DOI, including rail franchisees, bus and ferry operators.
Contract Management is responsible for the management of all contracts, vehicles and drivers with respect to the provisioning of bus and ferry services administered by the Public Transport Division. 
Costing & Indexation is responsible for the costing and indexation of all contracts with respect to the provisioning of bus and ferry services administered by the Public Transport division.
Payments and System Administration is specifically to provide a single application which will process bus contract payment obligations across all bus contract types (i.e. School Bus, Metropolitan, Country & Urban, Private Marketed, Night Rider, and Ferry), observing the specific Payment terms of each Contract Template. This module provides a consolidated view of payment history, which can be analyzed and aggregated as required for integrated management reporting. Also provides a secure, single interface to the Corporate Finance application, Oracle Financials for all public transport franchise agreement payments.
Role: I worked as a senior software developer. I made coding, code review, unit testing, and related jobs.
Technology: Java, J2EE, JSP, IBM RAD V6.0.0, Struts & Hibernate Frameworks, Sql Server 2000.

(4). Project Title: Stellar
Client: Channel 4 Television. (UK)
Duration: 12/04/2006 to 23/09/2007 as a Senior Software Engineer
Location: Offshore, NIIT Technologies Limited, Kolkata India.
Objective: Stellar is the first legacy modernization project of NIIT and has successfully completed in August 2003. This prestigious project consumed around 1100 man-months and was completed in 28 months duration. Stellar started with an initial FP of 7,444 and at the end has grown to 12,000 FP. 
The Stellar application currently provides service to the Airtime Sales and Management business of Channel Four Television, UK. The software provides a rich Graphic User Interface conforming to Outlook 2000 look & feel and features. The software product provides built-in security features, which will prevent unauthorized access to the data of Channel 4 airtime sales and management business. Stellar provides interfaces (on-line and off-line) to communicate with more than 15 external systems. 
Role: I worked as a configuration manager as well as software developer. I made coding, code review, testing, VSS maintaining and configuration related job.
Technology: Java, Swing, J2EE, EJB, ORACLE9i, TOAD, Hibernate, and Weblogic6.1 Server, Clear quest, VSS. 

(5). Project Title: Chemwatcher
Client: ChemWatch. (Australia)
Duration: 01/08/2005 to 05/04/2006 as a Web development team consultant
Location: Offshore, Elogix Software Pvt. Ltd., Kolkata India.
Objective: The objective of Chemwatcher is to create projects against a client. Through the created project a client can add the no. of MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) to be processed or the client can add no. of Inventories.Chemwatcher is the process where as soon as we get the work in, we put it in Chemwatcher so that clients can log in and check how their work is progressing. It’s a tracking tool for Chemwatch and for its clients.
Role: I worked as a web development team consultant. I made coding, code review, testing, and uploading.
Technology: Java, JSP, Servlet, Java Beans, Codebase, HTML, Java Script, Tomcat5.0.28 Server, Sunbelt Remote Administrator Viewer, SQL Server.
Website on the Internet: www.chemwatch.net/chemwatcher/

(6). Project Title: PowerEpay 
Client: Paystream International Financial Services. (USA)
Duration: 17/02/2005 to 31/07/2005 as a Software developer.
Location: Offshore, MindEdge Solutions, Kolkata India.
Objective: PowerEpay is an Online banking settlement services for Govt. agencies, Corporations, E-Merchants as well as customers.
Sales people have an edge in this system, before taking an order they can check the payment history of the customer, if they are satisfied - they can pay through this system saving money and time. If some entity is a client’s customer – the changes in the payment
Date or removal of itself from the system is reflected immediately to E-pay as well as to 
The customers. For e-merchant the need for check guarantee is eliminated. The shipment
Of merchandise is done after E-pay posts the receipt of merchant’s fund. All information
Posted is guaranteed. For the merchant’s payment – the Cash Management Information 
System is used. It supports ACH (Automatic Clearing House Network), Multilingual, Credit Card Facility etc.
Role: I worked as a web developer. I made coding, code review, testing, and uploading.
Technology: Java,JSP,Servlet,Java Script, Java Beans,HTML,Tomcat Server, SQL Server ,Apache server, Symantec PC Anywhere, SQL Server Comparison Tool. Server, SQL Server.
Website on the Internet: www.PowerEpay.com



EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION


EXAMINATION NAME
BOARD/COUNCIL
SUBJECTS
MARKS
%
DIVISION
(BCA)
Bachelor Of Computer Application

Makhanlal Chaturvedi National University of Journalism and Communication, Bhopal
ALL Computer Subjects And Math
73.48
1st



PERSONAL DATA (CONFIDENTIAL APPLICANT PROFILE)

Name:                                        			ANIK KUMAR NANDY

Father Name:                           			RABINDRA NATH NANDY

DOB:                                         			25-01-1977

Sex:                                          			Male

Nationality:                               			Indian

Permanent Address:                 	Flat No. 2C, Basistha II, Saptorshi Apt., 23/C, A.C. Sarker    Rd., Dakshineswar, Kol – 700076.

Phone Number:                       		              09830492026

Languages Known:                   		              English, Hindi, and Bengali


OTHER ACTIVITIES & HOBBIES

• Organizing various cultural activities
• Many Prizes in various Painting and Quiz Competitions
• Playing mouth organ and cricket

Declaration
I hereby declare that the above written particulars are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
                                                                                                                        ANIK KUMAR NANDY
 Ankit kumar Agarwal 
 
MCA 2014 passout with 1year experience in oracle 9i,11g (sql and pl/sql)
 
 
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - ERP / CRM
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 17 Sep 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.70 Lac(s)
• Highest Degree: MCA [Computers]
• Phone: 7411797651Verified
 
• Email: ankitkssinghal@yahoo.in Verified
• Address: Yeshwit nilaya,5th cross hoodi circle, ITPL road, Bangalore-560048, Bangalore - 560048
 
• Key Skills: sql,pl/sql Java, J2EE,hibernate,jsp,struts
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 3d420d800f3f52b335Last Active: 15-Oct-14Last Modified: 13-Oct-14

Ankit Kumar Agarwal 
Contact: +91 7411797651 / +91 8961010675
E-Mail: ankitkssinghal@yahoo.in

OBJECTIVE

To become a successful professional by achieving a bright career using my technical skills, knowledge and new ideas in any challenging phase.

PROFILE SUMMARY	

• A budding professional with 1 years of experience in Software Development and Project Management. 

• Adept in end-to-end development of application software from requirement analysis to system study, designing, coding, testing, documentation and implementation


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE	

Oct’13 – Sep’14			KS Systech Pvt. Limited, Kolkata as Software Developer

Key Result Areas:
• Handling the design, development, testing, troubleshooting and debugging of the software.
• Setting up and maintaining process, documentation and quality standards for all phases of the SDLC
• Subsequently working with other team members in identification and designing of client's solution
• Writing and understanding of simple database programs such as procedures, Functions, packages, Cursors, triggers, etc.


Projects Handled:
Title:	1.Customized ERP system
                                                          2. Payroll

Period:				From Oct’13 to Sep’14
Role:				Software Developer
Team Size:			8
Environment:			Oracle 11g, ASP .NET, Windows 2008 Server
Description:	It focused on customized ERP solution given to the manufacturing industries which are mainly related with Panels (33 Kv, 12 Kv, etc), CT, PT, Breaker etc. various types of electrical components and mass production. The ERP contained Sales, Purchase, Production, Planning, and Accounts Modules which were totally customized as per customer requirements. The Payroll Solution was integrated with the existing ERP system. The Payroll takes raw data as input from excel format from the punching machine and uploaded the same into the system through front end application.


TECHNICAL SKILLS

• Well versed with:
o SQL, PL/SQL, Java, C++,C
o Oracle 10g, 11g
o Toad, Pl/SQL Developer, NetBeans
o Windows XP/Server 2003/ Server 2008 R2
 



CERTIFICATIONS
    
• Certification on Hardware, networking, CCNA, Linux form HCLCDC Rourkela in 2010.
• Certification on Java and Oracle from Micro Pro.

EDUCATION

2014	MCA from Pailan College of Management and technology, Kolkata, WBUT
2011	B.com from Rourkela Evening College, Rourkela, Sambalpur University
2008	12th from Muncipal College, Rourkela, CHSE
2006		10th from Pragati Public School, Rourkela, ICSE

PERSONAL DETAILS

Date of Birth:					17th September, 1991				
Languages Known:				Hindi and English
Address: 	Yeshwit nilaya, 5th cross hoodi circle, ITPL road, Bangalore-560048
LinkedIn Profile:	ankitkssinghal@yahoo.in 

 Arunkumar 
 
M.Sc IT with 2 Year and 1 Months of experience as a Java Developer
 
 
• Current Designation: Associate Software Engineer
• Current Company: Grian Technologies Pvt Ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai,Anywhere in South India
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 18 Jul 1988 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 1 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.55 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: M.Sc [Computers]
• Phone: 9986985000Verified
 
• Email: arunkumars720@gmail.com Verified
• Address: arunkumars720@gmail.com, Bangalore - 560068
 
• Key Skills: Java, JSP, Struts, Servlet, Spring, Hibernate
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 5a80ada67278a13073Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Oct-14
ARUNKUMAR S


A+91-9986985000						        + arunkumars720@gmail.com

Career Objective: 

Seeking challenging assignments in Software Development with a reputed organization which would provide enough opportunities where my strong programming skills and domain knowledge can be utilized towards continuous growth and advancement of the organization and upgrade myself.

Professional Summary:

• Having around 2 plus years of experience in Java Technologies
• Experience in development of multi-tier web applications using JSP, Servlet and EJB technologies.
• Extensive experience in using MVC architecture web applications design using open source frameworks like Spring, Struts and Hibernate.
• Experience in development of Java stand-alone applications using Core Java and Swing.
• Extensive experience in Mysql Server Database design, Database maintenance, Table Relationship, Stored procedures using MySql.
• Have knowledge on the design framework Sitemesh and creating consistent look/feel web pages.
• Have knowledge designing interactive web pages using Javascript, AJAX and JQuery.
• Good working knowledge on Application development and maintenance life cycle process.
• Experience in development methodologies like agile and waterfall.
• Team player with strong analytical, organizational and planning skills. Comfortable working in solo and in a team environment.

Organisational Exposure:

Currently working as Associate Software Engineer in Grian Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore from June 2014 to till date.

Previously worked as Associate Software Engineer in Vannu Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore from August 2012 to May 2014.

Scholastic Profile:

• M.Sc Information Technology,  K.S. Rangasamy College of Technology,  2012,  77.6%.
• B.Sc Information Technology,  Annamalai University,  2009, 72%.
• Diploma in Information Technology, Nettur Technical Training Foundation, 2009, 73%.
• HSC, St. Pauls Matric Hr Sec School,Vaniyambadi, 2006, 71%.
• MATRIC, St. Pauls Matric Hr Sec School, Vaniyambadi, 2004, 81%.

Technical Expertise:

Operating System
:
Ubuntu 12.04, Windows XP/7, Cent OS
Languages
:
Java, C,C++
J2EE Technologies
:
JDBC, Servlets, JSP
Frame Works
:
Struts, Spring IOC
OR Mapping Tools
:
Hibernate
Modelling Language
:
UML
Scripting Language
:
Java Script, JQuery, AJAX
Web Technologies
:
HTML, XML
Database
:
My SQL Server 5.5,MS SQL , Oracle
Web servers
:
Apache Tomcat





Project# 1
       
       Project Name			:  OWSM (One Window Social Messaging)
       Company Name			:  Grian Technologies Pvt Ltd.
Technologies Used		:  Java, JSP, STRUTS 2.0, JDBC, XMPP Server, Facebook API 
                                                        MYSQL 
Team Size                              	:  3
       Role                                       	:  Software Developer
       Period                                     	:  June 2014 – till date

Description:
       
       OWSM (One Window Social Messaging) is the product of Grian Technologies which interact with people using Facebook. Using the Xmpp server its Artificial intelligent System response to the query related to. Using various algorithm that are design using matlab using Euclidean Distance Algoritm. This can be used as an automated Chat System that can give answer, to a client query without using any human resource.


Project# 2
       
       Project Name			:  Thots Lab
       Company Name			:  Vannu Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore.
       Client				:  Mind edutainment Pvt ltd.
       Client URL			:  www.mindedutainment.com
Technologies Used		:  Java, JSP, STRUTS 2.0, JDBC, HIBERNATE, SPRING 
                                                       IOC,  MYSQL 
Team Size                              	:  6
       Role                                       	:  Software Developer
       Period                                     	:  July 2013 – till date

Description:
       
       My Thinking Program an initiative of Mind Edutainment Pvt. Ltd (MEPL) has been created with a purpose to equip future generations with the wisdom of structured Thinking Skills and Thinking Processes.  MEPL keeps track of the students and teachers of all the schools which have been registered with MEPL.  It also provides learning guidance to the students through various activities like rush hour, grid work, etc making their learning easy.  View reports using BIRT Report Viewer according to the needs and permissions of the users.


Project# 3
       
       Project Name			:   Automation of Conducting Examination
       Company Name			:   Vannu Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore.
       Client				:   NLSIU -National Law School of India University
       Client URL			:   www.nls.ac.in
       Technologies Used        		:   JAVA, JSP, STRUTS 2.0, JDBC, MYSQL        
       Team Size                             	:   5
       Role                                       	:   Software Developer
       Period                                     	:   January 2013 - July 2013


Description: 
      
       Bar code application can easy to track the student based on the batch & academic year.   Update the student marks for examination.  Generate the report based on the batch-wise with BIRT Report Viewer. We can also maintain the subject details based on the academic year and also track the failed student in batch/academic wise.  

Project# 4
       
       Project Name			:  Asset Management
       Company Name			:  Vannu Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore.
       Client				:  Knoture Technologies Pvt ltd.
       Client URL			:  www.knoture.com
Technologies Used		:  Java, JSP, STRUTS 2.0, JDBC, HIBERNATE, MYSQL 
Team Size                              	:  6
       Role                                       	:  Software Developer
       Period                                     	:  August 2012 – December 2012

Description:
      
       The Asset management system any item of economic value owned by an individual or corporation, especially that which could be converted to cash. The asset system manages the employee, asset and store information.  This system process is install asset, Purchase order request and response information and Depreciation value of the product.
       

Project# 5
       
       Project Name	   	   :  STD – PIN CODE & TOURIST PLACE SEARCHER
       Team Size		   :  4
       Duration		   :  3 Months
       Technologies Used  	   :  J2ME




Description 		   
       
       It is a Stand alone Mobile application used for Searching Std codes, pincodes and tourist places in the State ofTamil Nadu(INDIA). Software available @ http://gallery.mobile9.com/f/740681/ which was uploaded at 2009.

Contributions: 
• Prepared PS (program Specifications) for the impacted modules.
• Involved in construction, Analysis & design.
• Involved in code walk-thru. 
• Worked on unit testing using fire bug tool.
• Worked with Java Web Application Framework “Sitemesh”, creating look/feel, navigation flexible web pages.
• Worked with UI controls using Jquery.
• Worked with much of functionalities of web designing with Ajax and Javascript
• Interacted with clients for project enhancement as per business requirement.

Roles & Responsibilities:

• Understand the Business Functionality of the system and active participation in project designing and implementation.
• Interacted with the client regarding the inputs and implementations
• Worked as a programmer and handled various duties like designing, developing, writing codes and specifications, debugging and so on.
• Responsible for reporting to the Project Lead.
• I achieved working experience of writing Database stored procedures and triggers for respective modules.
• I understood the Domain knowledge in field of Education.
• Identified major integration issues within the application and resolved them.
  

Personal Profile:
       Date of Birth		:	18th July 1988.
       Languages Known	:	English, Tamil &Telugu(Oral).
       Hobbies		:	Listening Songs, Reading & Browsing.
       Permanent Address	:	4/2, Vivekanandhar (St), Kathari (PO), Natrampalli,
                                                                 Vellore (dist), Tamilnadu – 635852.
Address for Comm.	:	No 12/1, 2nd Cross, Behind Anjaneya Temple, Madiwala,
       Bangalore, Karnataka - 560068
Declaration:

I hereby declare that, all the information furnished above is true to best of my knowledge and belief.

Place:  Bangalore


Date:								                     (ARUNKUMAR. S)

Arvind kumar Singh Rajpoot 
 
2 Years Experience
Current Job- Software Developer
Java, HTML, CSS, Jsp, Servlet and php,
Ubuntu 12.04,
SVN, Redmine, WinSCP
 
 
• Current Designation: Junior Software Developer
• Current Company: Northern Lights Studio Pvt. Ltd
• Current Designation: Junior Software Developer
• Current Company: Northern Lights Studio Pvt. Ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Kakinada
• Functional Area: IT Software - Client Server
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 01 Jan 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 8871452925Verified
 
• Email: arvindrajput009@gmail.com Verified
• Address: 69,dam road Azadpura-2 Lalitpur(up), lalitpur - 284403
 
• Key Skills: c/c++,j2se, j2ee and elementy knowledge of oracle-10g
Tools- TortoiseSVN, Redmine, WinSCP
IDE- Net Beans, Eclipcs and PDE
OS- Windows, Ubuntu 12.04, MAC
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 0c0c171f7495523957Last Active: 16-Oct-14Last Modified: 16-Oct-14


ARVIND RAJPOOT
           HB-43, Abhiruchi Parisar Subhas Nagar Bhopal-462023
Contact:  +91-8871452925;  
E-mail: arvindrajput009@gmail.com		
	

SUMMARY OF SKILLS

• Total 1+ years of experience as a Software Developer in Northern Lights Studio Pvt. Ltd Bhopal. 
• I have experience as a Developer in Java Web Application, PHP Web Application.
• Take responsibility, fast learner, result oriented and strongly committed to deliver timely, accurate and quality work.


WORK EXPERIENCE 

Currently working in Northern Lights Studio Pvt. Ltd. As an executive software developer
• Project: Home surveillance security system. (Development and maintaining)
• Technology: Linux (Ubuntu Server 10.04), OpenWRT, PHP Zend Framework, MySQL,  Mobile platforms IOS, Android, BlackBerry, Redmine, SVN and Lighttpd 

SKILL SET

Programming Language	
• J2se/J2ee, Servlet, JSP.
• Basics of C, C++ and Php.

Tools 
• Eclipse, Net Beans, Xcode
• XAMPP
• SVN
• WinSCP

Database
• Oracle 10g
• MySQL 

Operating System
•  Microsoft Windows
• Mac
• Ubuntu 12.04



EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION

• B.E.(Computer Science and Engineering)                                      Batch 2008-2012
             RGPV, Bhopal                                                                                       Marks: 73.01%     
• Class 12  (Science Stream)                                                                  Year of passing: 2007      
              UP Board                                    			                     Marks: 64.66%
• Class 10                                                                                                 Year of passing: 2005
              UP Board				                                               Marks: 69.60%


Person Details: 
1. DOB:                 01/01/1991       
2. Father Name:   Shri RatiRam Rajpoot
3. Mother Name: Smt. Kamla Devi
4. Address :          HB-43, Abhiruchi Parisar Subhas Nagar Bhopal-462023


       


Date:  27/09/2014
Place: Bhopal		                                				 (Arvind Rajpoot)

ASHUTOSH KUMAR TRIPATHI
Technology Lead, Infosys Technologies Limited, Bangalore

OBJECTIVE
To be associated with a progressive software organization and be part of a dynamic team that works towards the growth of the organization and helps me update my knowledge and skills in accordance with latest trends.

RESUME HIGHLIGHTS
• More than 5.5 years of experience at Infosys Technologies Ltd. (Includes 6 months of training in Java Stream)
• Very good experience in Oracle Metasolv Products – ASAP & OSM (Telecom COTS products)
• Good experience in Telecom OSS fulfillment domain.
• Programming Language – Java
• Other Skills: Java, Struts2, Hibernate, Web Service, XML, OOPS, General Software Engineering, Installations, Production Support, Deployments, Scripting etc. 
• Operating System – Unix & Windows
• Worked for long terms at client locations (UK and Australia) for various projects in requirement gathering and design and production support phases.
• Dedicated, hard working individual with excellent interpersonal and communication skills to face customers and build teams.
• Have performed the following job roles in Infosys :
o Software Engineer
o Senior Software Engineer
o Technology Analyst
o Technology Lead


DETAILS OF THE PROJECTS WORKED ON:

Wholesale Leased Line (WLL) - 	(Dec 10 – April 11)
	Client – Greece Telecom
	Domain – Telecommunication
	Description – 
The WLL is automated service management program for client’s leased line. This required the development of a service manager application which can talk to customer care, actiovation and billing systems. The solution is based on OSM.

Technologies/Tools Worked on– Oracle OSM, Java, Web service, Weblogic etc.
Responsibilities – Lead, Development of OSM cartridges and web service modules


AM-SHARED1 - 	(April 10 – Dec 10)
	Client – Telstra
	Domain – Telecommunication (Multiple)
	Description – 
The AM-SHARED1 is Telstra’s fulfilment platform which keeps the activation module for 3 applications - Ethernet MAN, Next Generation Fixed (NGF) and BigPond broadband. This platform contains Activation solutions based on Oracle’s product Automated Service Activation Program (ASAP) and IP Service Activator (IPSA). 

Technologies/Tools Worked on– Oracle ASAP, Java, Web service, Weblogic etc.
Responsibilities – Lead, Development and ownership of ASAP cartridges and web service module, Production Deployment, and Production Support

Next Generation Fixed (NGF)- 	(June 09 – Ongoing)
	Client – Telstra
	Domain – Telecommunication (Fixed Line)
	Description – 
The Next Generation Fixed (NGF) Voice & Video Calling (NGF-VVC) is introduced for Telstra’s broadband cable customers a product which offers an enriched calling experience and an exciting new video calling experience.  It is also a viable alternative to traditional telephony for consumers. The project involved development of multiple ASAP cartridges and a user interface called Resource Facing Service Activator (RFSA).

Technologies/Tools Worked on – Oracle ASAP, Java, Struts2, Hibernate, Axis Web service.
Responsibilities – Inputs to Architectural design and High level design and creation of detailed design, Development and ownership of ASAP cartridges and web service module, Production Deployment, and Production Support, Detailed assessment for the future phases of the solution.


iVserve Application - 	(Oct06 – Mar09) 

	Client – British Telecom
	Domain – Telecommunication (MPLS)
	Description – 
The project is focused around configuration of Network elements (Routers and Switches) at BT sites as well as their customer’s sites based across various geographies. Key objective of the project is to automate the system in order to reduce total time in configuring the customer VPNs. End stage is to generate IOS commands as per the customer’s specifications which are then configured on network elements. 
	
Technologies/Tools Worked on – Oracle ASAP, Oracle OSM, Objectel client, Java, Java Script etc.
Responsibilities – Developer for various ASAP & OSM cartridges and later worked as owner for specific requirements, Production Support etc.
 
Log sheet Application - 	(May – Sept 2006)

	Client - BTFleet (a subsidiary or British Telecom)
	Domain – Vehicle Management and Fleet
	Description – 
This application is about the 4 data sources of BT Fleet which produced BT’s vehicle or customer records as comma seperated values into files. The application read these files on daily basis at a scheduled time. Then apply several validations logics, and then enqueue the records to Oracle advanced queue. The advance queue makes the data meaningful to the BTFleet management for business analysis.

            Technologies/Tools Worked on –  Java, Oracle, Unix, JDeveloper, 
Responsibilities – Developing Java transformer classes for reading and transforming the data. Also worked as a configuration controller for the project.

Vehicle Take On Process –    (Jan – April 2006)

	Client - BTFleet (a subsidiary or British Telecom)
	Domain – Vehicle Management and Fleet
	Description – 
This is about automation of Vehicle Take On process. This process is about the employees and customers of BT Fleet who could enter their personal or company provided vehicle details into the BT system database known as WILLOW. This web application required development of user interface for the various customers support and vehicle data management and the customer management system.
            Technologies/Tools Worked on– Java script, Java, Oracle. 
	Responsibility – Client side Java script GUI validations of large forms.

PERSONAL SKILLS

• Excellent problem solving and debugging skills.
• Experience in application support and interacting with the client at onsite. 
• Take initiative and work independently or as a part of group.
• Well organized and easily meet deadlines.
• A consistent performer throughout School and College.

AWARDS & RECOGNITIONS
• Won Spot Awards and Bravo awards several times for good work.
• Received client appreciation several times for quick problem resolution.

TRAININGS & CERTIFICATIONS

• Infosys EnR training in Mysore on J2EE stream for 6 months.
• English Language communication (BULLATS Certification)
• Corporate Etiquette and Grooming
• Infosys Quality System
• Customer Orientation
• Written and Verbal Communication Skills


ACADEMIC QUALIFICATIONS
                                                 

S.N.
QUALIFICATION
BOARD/
UNIVERSITY
INSTITUTION
MARKS
YEAR
1
Bachelor of Technology

Uttar Pradesh
Technical University
H.B.T.I. Kanpur
68
2005
2
Intermediate
U.P.Board
K.P.I.C. Allahabad
67.6
1999
3
High School
U.P.Board
G.I.C. Pratapgarh
64.8
1997


PERSONAL DETAILS

Name
:
Ashutosh Kumar Tripathi
Contact No.
:
+91 8105200990
Sex
:
Male
Date of Birth
:
11th June, 1983
Father’s Name
:
Mr. U. S. Tripathi
Present Address
:
Block-1, Flat-101, Shanti Park Apartments, Jayanagar 9th Block, Bangalore - 560069



ashwini kumar 
 
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER HAVING 2+YEARS EXPERIENCE
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: NFT Infotech Pvt Ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 06 Jan 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.85 Lac(s)
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9886895209Verified
 
• Email: kumar.bgp1991@gmail.com Verified ,
kumar.bgp1991@gmail.com
• Address: H.No-13,mahisauta,bihar, Banka - 813211
 
• Key Skills: c,java,jdbc,servlet,jsp,hibernate,struts,spring,webservices
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 2faf42335d81838071Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Oct-14

                                             ASHWINI KUMAR
E-mail: kumar.bgp1991@gmail.com

                                                              Phone: +91 – 9886895209


Summary


o  Over 2+ years of industry experience in software  development of client/server systems.

o Expertise in developing web based Java applications using Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Oracle and MySql as primary development tools . 

o Hands-on experience with Eclipse and STS to develop enterprise level web applications. o Extensive knowledge & experience in Java web technologies like Servlet , JSP, JSTL and

Custom tag libraries.

o Extensive knowledge of MVC Architecture with Spring framework and Struts framework to design and develop web based applications 

o Hands-on experience with Tomcat web server and also have good knowledge of application servers such as Glass Fish, Weblogic. 

o Good Hands of experience on SQL, Restful WebServices and XML. o Good Hands of experience on Design Patterns related to java.

o Extensive knowledge of back-end technology like Hibernate using DAO pattern. o Quick learner with the ability to grasp new technologies and software.

o Energetic and self-motivated team player and proven ability to work in both independent and team environment. 

o Dynamic IT professional with superior problem solving skills. o Excellent Communication skills and Interpersonal skills.


Skill Set & tools



Programming Languages
:
Java
Web Technologies
:
HTML, JavaScript
JSE Technologies
:
Core concepts, JDBC
JEE Technologies
:
Servlet, JSP
Frameworks
:  Struts 1.x, Struts 2.x, Spring.
ORM Tool
:
Hibernate
GUI Tools/IDE
:
Eclipse.
Servers
:
Apache Tomcat, Weblogic.
RDBMS
:
Mysql, Oracle



Experience Summary

 Currently working as a Software Engineer in NFT Infotech Pvt Ltd, Bangalore from July 2012 to till date. 




- 1 -


Educational Qualification

 Under Graduation from H.P.U in 2012 with an aggregate of 68%. 

 Intermediate from Board of Intermediate Education in 2008 with 62%. 
 S.S.C from Board of Secondary Education in 2006 with 63%. 


Projects Summary

1. Product Managing System (PMS).
June 2013 – Till date
Client
: Ceon Corporation, USA

Role
: Team member.

Description
:


                   This system is responsible to managing product inside database and stores all information of deliver products. It maintains the customer order and information also. This system contains three modules one is to store and maintain product inside database, second store all information of deliver and fails product to customers and third is store all information about customers.

     There are so many user who access the product database to find all information about product as well as customers and there are more than one administrator one is responsible to maintain the product database other is responsible to maintain the customers database and other is responsible to manage delivers of products.

     Administrator who having all information about all sub administrators and all sub administrator are responsible to handle users and corresponding database The system helps to the company Collaborate with business partners to track goods ordering and delivery around the country. The system is a WEB based application, which allows remotely creating orders, scheduling its execution, and tracking cargo delivery. It is used to managing products and making new customer and managing old customer with the help of this system.

Responsibilities:
 Designed JSP’s as per the Requirement. 

 Developed Servlet, Java Beans 

 Created hibernate POJO classes for tables. 

 Involved in the I18N coding, Tiles Programming. 

 Written Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations. 

 Written DAO’s and their implementations With Hibernate. 

 Injected Spring DAO’s into Spring Services. 

Environment: JSP, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.0, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat and Oracle.

















- 2 -


2. SBE Service Contract Center
July 2012 – april 2013
Client
: SBE , U.S.A.

Role
: Team member.

Description
:


                    Quoting and Ordering Application is a web based quote generation and ordering tool. It enables easy, consistent and secure creation and management of quotes. It supports both internal and external users. It provides streamlined processes for new, upgrade and renewal services Estimate provides faster results regarding price, helps to quickly identify whether the service is available or not at a particular location. When the User orders a quote, it gets converted into Service Contract which is legal Document between SBE and Customer. This web based application is responsible to maintain healthy relationship with all the clients registered with it.

Responsibilities:

 Implementation of Test cases using JUnit Framework. 

 Implement the log4J with customized levels . 
 Developing the application using Struts and Spring framework . 
 Helping the team members to fix the bugs 
 Implement the Struts 1.0 and Hibernate frame work in my Application. 

 Implemented Form Beans and their Validations using Validation Framework. 

 Written DAO’s and their implementations With Hibernate. 

 Involving in configuration management , deployment and trouble shooting of application 



Environment: JAVA, Servlets, JSP, Struts 1.0, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, XML, JUnit, Maven, Eclipse, Oracle, SVN.


PERSONAL DETAILS
•
Father’s Name
:-
Ram Charitra Mandal
•
Date of Birth
:-
06.th Jan 1991
•
Marital Status
:-
Single
•
Nationality/Religion
:-
Indian
•
Language
:-
English,Hindi


DECLARATION

I do hereby declare that the above information is true to the best of my knowledge.





Place: Bangalore.	     Ashwini kumar
Date:	(Signature)











- 3 -



Basanth kumar JM 
 
BASANTHA Resume BE fresher in information science and engg 2013 passed out with 65% throught and JAVA certifierd and SQL certified..
 
 
• Current Designation: Associate software trainee
• Current Company: RiseOn tech pvt ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: Fresher/Trainee
• Date of Birth / Gender: 28 Feb 1992 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 7 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.50 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9620602338Verified
 
• Email: basanth.jajur@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Banglore , old madiwala , harshavardhana pg. BTM layout 1st stage .., kotturu bellary distict.. - 583134
 
• Key Skills: java j2ee, c c java, java j2ee, java j2ee, java j2ee hibernate, java j2ee servlets jsp, java fresher, java j2ee servlets jsp struts, java j2ee developer, java j2ee, pl sql, c unix basics, JAVA, J2EE, SQl, HTML
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 296c02215db42ba573Last Active: 12-Oct-14Last Modified: 28-Sep-14

					
BASANTH KUMAR J M					   Harshavardhana  gents PG, #404/5,                                            
9620602338						                  17th main , old madiwala,  
basanth.jajur@gmail.com					   BTM 1st stage,Banglore-560068

Objective
      Seeking challenging career to utilize my skills and ability to add value to the growth of the company that offers security and professional growth while being resourceful, innovative and flexible.
       
Education

Course
Board /
University

Year of Passing

Institution
% of Marks

B.E(IS&E)

V.T.U Belgaum

2013

S.J.M.I.T Chitradurga
65.5%
P.U.C
Department of Pre-University Education
2009
Kottureshwara Collège, Kotturu.
66.5%
S.S.L.C
Karnataka SE Board
2007
Kolashanteshwara high school, Kotturu.
84.5%

Technical Experiences

Programming Languages Known 		:  C,  JAVA (core java)
Packages/IDE Experience 	:  Microsoft Office, Turbo C ,Eclipse.
Platforms				     	:  Microsoft Windows XP /7, Unix
Web						:  HTML, CSS
Database					:  Oracle.

Project

• Title: Tiered Authentication of Multicast Protocol for Ad-hoc Networks(TAM): 
• Technology Used: Java     
• No of Persons:  4
• My role: Front end designing and wrote modules for UI components and Database connection.
   Transferring of data or file from one computer to another computer by giving the Authentication (giving the username and password).So, that the hackers can’t be access that file or data. 
   
Technical Training
➢ Undergoing training on JAVA in KBS Technologies.

Achievements
➢ Participated and got certificate of Rashtrapathi puraskar in scout and guides.
➢ Represented my college for VTU sports.
➢ Coordinator of cultural fest held at SJMIT College on October 2012.
➢ Presented paper on “Surface computing” at SJMIT College as part of final year Seminar. 

Extra curricular activities
➢ Photography & Photo editing, Drawing & Chess. 

Personal strengths
➢ Comprehensive problem solving ability
➢ Good verbal and written communication skills
➢ Good presentation skills
➢ Good team player
➢ Flexible to work and adapt to any situation and work place

Personal details
Name				:  Basantha kumar JM
Father’s Name 		:  Manjunatha JB 
Date of birth 			:  28th Feb 1992
Gender 			:  Male
Languages Known 		:  English, Kannada, Telugu. 
Permanent  Address	:  Near ramesh complex , opposite house 
   B S Veerabadrappa (Ex-MLA) renuka road,
   Kotturu -5831344 ,Bellary (dist) Kudligi (tq).

Declaration			
      
      I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.
                                                                                        
                                                                                        

								
Date:									Basantha kumar JM

Place:

     Ravi kant Suman 
 
Having 1.9+years of experience as Junior Software Developer(Hibernate,Strurts 1.x,Spring,Core Java).
 
 
• Current Designation: Junior Software Developer
• Current Company: MindTree Limited
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - System Programming
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 12 Dec 1988 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 9 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.05 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: MCA [Computers]
• Phone: 7259498603Verified
 
• Email: sumanravi33@gmail.com Verified ,
sumanravi33@gmail.com
• Address: Delhi - 110019
 
• Key Skills: Core JAVA, ORACLE, MySQL, JAVASCRIPT, HTML, JDBC, XML, SERVLET, JSP,HIBERNATE,Struts 1.x,
Spring
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 2acd29ca0c07f5b995Last Active: 11-Oct-14Last Modified: 11-Oct-14



RaviKant Suman
Junior Software Developer
Sumanravi33@gmail.com                                                                                                               
Cell No: +91 7259498603                                    

Objective

         Aim to be associated with a Progressive organization that gives me the scope to share my knowledge and skills in accordance with the latest trends and be a part of team that dynamically works towards the growth of organization and gives the satisfaction thereof.

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  

• Having 1.9+ Years of Experience as a Software Developer in the IT Industry.
• Hands on experience in Java and J2EE 
• Hands on experience in Hibernate Framework.
• Hands on experience in Spring Framework.
• Hands on experience in J2EE Design Patterns.
• Hands on experience in JDBC.
• Hands on experience in Servlets.
• Hands on experience in JSP.
WORK EXPERIENCE

• Currently working as Junior Software Developer in Mind Tree, Bangalore from Jan 2013 to till date.
EDUCATION  
   
• Bachelor of Computer Application from Annamalai University in 2010
• Master of Computer Application from Bangalore University in 2013

TECHNICAL SKILLS  

Operating System		
Windows 
Languages	
Java, SQL, HTML, XML, JavaScript
J2EE Technologies	
Servlets,  JSP, JDBC, JPA
Web Servers
Apache Tomcat
Frameworks         	
 Hibernate, Spring
Tools          
Eclipse, ANT, JUnit , Maven, SVN
Databases
Oracle 10g,  MySQL5.0





Project #1	:             Travel Trip 
Client	:	         Amadeus  
Team Size	:	         7
Role	:	         Developer
Duration	:	         April 2014 to Till Date. 
Environment	:	         Java, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Tomcat and Oracle.	        
Description      : 
Travel Trip is the project made for one of the leading companies in the world which provide services in the Travel domain. Travel Trip Airline Booking System is an application through which admin can do various activities like adding airlines and the user can perform activities like booking of flights, cancelling of flights, etc after signing in to the user home page, also anyone can search for flights.

Responsibilities:

• JSP`s as per the Requirement.
• Implemented Controller classes.
• Implemented Command and Validations Classes.
• Spring Service Interfaces.
• Spring DAO`s With Hibernate.
• Injected Spring DAO`s into Spring Services.
• Hibernate  Components


PROJECT #2     : 	        Online Health Services 
Client	:	        National University Hospital, Singapore
Team Size	:	        8
Role	:	        Team Member
Duration	:	        April 2013 to Feb 2014. 
Environment	:	        Java, JSP, spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Tomcat, and Oracle.	        
Description      : 
This project mainly focuses on Doctor’s & Patients relation. This software facilitates a doctor to get a registration which provides a quick reference of past history related to a patient like his/her symptoms, drug allergies, family history etc. Doctors can use this information for further advices. So doctors will feel simple while treating a patient which he already treated before. In this system patient will also facilitate by user-id and password to get online appointment with a doctor. So no patient will suffer for getting an appointment because all information about doctors like his/her available hospital name, available time etc. will be open in the web for that day. If a patient wants appointment for a doctor then he can send a message and can engage.
 
Responsibilities:

• JSP`s as per the Requirement.
• Implemented Controller classes.
• Implemented Command and Validations Classes.
• Spring Service Interfaces.
• Spring DAO`s With Hibernate.
• Injected Spring DAO`s into Spring Services.
• Hibernate  components.







Personal Information:

Name                   :	 Ravikant Suman                                       
Marital Status    :  Single
Gender                :	 Male 				         
Nationality         :   Indian

Place: Bangalore             




      
	

 rina borkar 
 
software devloper havving 1 year 3 month experience in java/j2ee technology.
 
 
• Current Designation: software devloper
• Current Company: YBN technology and marketting solution pvt ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 13 Jan 1990 / Female
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 3 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.15 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7411833025Verified
 
• Email: reenaborkar.56@gmail.com Verified ,
reenaborkar@ymail.com
• Address: marathahlli bangalore, Bangalore - 560037
 
• Key Skills: java/j2ee,javascript,ajax,json,mysql
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 75d57e167a9f939b30Last Active: 14-Oct-14Last Modified: 14-Oct-14Report Resume
 

                                 RINA TANBA BORKAR
 
 Address:					    	 Contact: 
 # 991,7th cross, tulsi theatre road,                         	 Email: reenaborkar.56@gmail.com                                                 
Marathahalli, Bangalore			      	 Phone: 7411833025
Karnataka-560037                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  


 OBJECTIVE:
                 To become a successful professional by working with dedication and commitment in 	an esteemed organization where I can put my knowledge and enthusiasm to expand my 	potential to the maximum for the growth of the organization.
 
 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
• Current Organization	: YBN Technology and Marketting solution  pvt ltd.
• Designation		:  Software developer.
• Joined 			:  10th  August-2013
1.CURRENT PROJECT DETAIL 
• Project Name		: Commonslot. 
• Technologies used	: Spring mvc ,jsp, hibernate,json. 
• Platform		: windows.
• IDE                              :Eclipse.
• Role			: Working on the development of web app for commonslot. 
1.Worked on spring security for login .
2.Worked on  sending time request to the user and scheduling appointment with the user.
3.Worked on Creating timeboard by public and private type.
4.Worked on coding for the editing and deleting the timeboard and publishing events to the user.
5.Worked on coding part for showing the user created timeboard event list.
Description		: Time is essence of our life. Commonslot helps you to find that right time or common time which works best for you and somebody else. Commonslot is time manager for professionals, businesses and individuals! Commonslot is expected to be the place where millions of people look at when they think of Time.

2. PROJECT DETAIL 
• Project Name		: refer247. 
• Technologies used	: JSON,Javascript,Jquery,jquery mobile. 
• Platform		: windows phone 8.
• IDE                              :Microsoft visual studio(with phonegap framework).
• Role			: Worked on development of  refer247 customer app for windows phone 8.
1.Worked on registering the customer based on email id and phonenumber.
2.Worked for session management using client side cookie.
3.Worked on  posting need to the needboard by privacy -public or private.
4. Implemented searching merchant from the brand and subscribing to the  merchant.
5.Worked on giving recommendations and referrals based on the need in the needboard listed  to the phonebook-contacts. 
6.Worked on reward part for giving rewards from merchant to the customer on successful referral.
Description		: Referral in any business is the easiest way to sell and confirm customer’s satisfaction/loyalty. However, it is not easy for business to Get referral, and to track referral.Refer247 is a mobile app which makes it very simple for a business to generate referral from existing customers.It is a platform where merchants or Brands rewards their existing customers for bringing new customer.
 
 ACADEMIC RECORD:

Course
Name of School/College
Year of Passing
Percentage/CGPA
B.TECH (CSE)
Govt. college of Engg, Amravati, Maharashtra.
2012
71.11
HSC (12th )
Nanaji Joshi Junior college, shahapur, Maharashtra
2007
79.83%
 SSC(10th )
Sarswati Vidyalaya,  Arjuni/mor, Maharashtra.
2005
82.40%


TECHNICAL SKILLS:


 TRAINING COMPLETD:  Have completed TRAINING on Java/J2ee Technology  at Lara Technology, Bangalore from May 2013 to November 2013.

AREA OF INTEREST: Data Structure, Operating System, DBMS, Networking.

ACADEMIC PROJECTS:
B.Tech(Major Project):
• Application control using dexture image
Technology used: Java					Development Tool: Eclipse
Description: It deals with gestures by which user can control various applications like notepad, paint and control panel. It allows the user to input the data by executing bare handed gesture in front of the camera. It provides an alternative to the traditional hardware devices like keyboard and monitor.

ACHIEVEMENTS AND EXTRA CURRICULUM:

• 1st prize in Essay Writing Competition in Vidharbh at Raman Science, Nagpur and Nominated for State Level Easy Writing Competition in year 2004.
• 1st prize in Rangoli Competition at Govt. College of Engineering Amravati in 2009.
• Wallpaper Secretary in Association of Computer Science and Engineering at GCOE Amravati in 2010.
• Participated in the event “Blitzkrieg-2011” at datta Meghe College, Wardha.

 PERSONAL DETAILS
Name		 : Rina Tanba Borkar
Sex		 : Female
Nationality	 : Indian
Date of Birth	 : 13-Jan-1990
Marital Status : Single
Languages	  : English, Marathi, Hindi.

Place: Bangalore								[Signature]
Date: 									 	Rina Borkar      
R Tejeshwar Raju 
 
Looking for a Challenging environment to Enhance my Technical and Professional Skills
 
 
• Current Designation: Analyst Programmer
• Current Company: Cognizant Technologies Solutions
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Hyderabad,Pune
• Functional Area: IT Software - Other
• Role: System Analyst
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 14 Dec 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 6 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 3.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 2 Months
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Electronics/Telecommunication]
• Phone: 08553612570Verified
 
• Email: az.teju@gmail.com Verified ,
az.teju@yahoo.com
• Address: SLB nilaya, old madiwala, V. road, near someshwara temple, BTM 1st stage, Bangalore-560068, Bangalore - 560068
 
• Key Skills: Hibernate, Core Java, Servlets, Struts,Networking, C, SQL, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Threads, Data Structures, Design Pattern,web services(Soap, Rest), Linux (redhat), Unix, Windows 2007, Windows Server 2008, Shell Scripting , PLSQL .
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 1039598f449af41d50Last Active: 24-Sep-14Last Modified: 24-Sep-14

R Tejeshwar Raju.
( +91- 8553612570
8 az.teju@gmail.com
a az.teju@yahoo.com 


Experience Summary 
• Having around 1 year 2 months of experience as software Engineer in JAVA/J2EE, C# UNIX/LINUX and UML.
• Conversant and proficient in designing, developing & implementing applications using JAVA.
• Proficient in Analytical Skills, Requirement gathering, Design, Development, Implementation.
• Proficiency in handling Pages, Documents and Applications, for maintenance and development assignments.
• Well Understanding of Windows architecture, familiarity with UNIX architecture.
• Well Experience of team development, work with SourceSafe.
• Motivated, Energetic individual with Excellent Communication and Interpersonal Skills.
• Experienced to adapt to onshore and offshore work culture and environment.


Professional Experience
• Working as a Systems Engineer at SHINE SOFT SOLLUTIONS PVT. LTD., Bangalore, from Nov 2012 to till date.



Qualifications
Education
Board/University
Year 
Marks
B.Tech[CSE]
Visvesvaraya Technological University , Karanataka.
2009-13
66%
Intermediate(+2)
Board of Intermediate Education, Karanataka.
2007-09
69%
SSC(10th)
Central Board of Secondary Education, Karanataka.
2006-07
68%




Technical Skills
Languages  
C++(Proficient), JAVA/J2EE(Expert).
Data Bases
My SQL, Oracle 10g.
Frame Works
Strut2.x, Spring,Hibernate, web services(SOAP/REST)
Web Design Technologies
HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.
IDEs & Tools
Eclipse, Visual Studio 2010, Enterprise Architect.
Operating systems
Windows XP/7, Ubuntu LINUX.
Version control
SVN, tortoise Git lab.
Others
Object oriented Software engineering Design with UML ,Design 
Patterns, Agile Development Methodologies, Advanced data 
structures,  problem solving, complexity Analysis and
optimization,SNMP, Linux internals, Socket programming,
IPC Mechanisms ,Trouble shooting & Debugging skills


Projects Summary 
Project Title
SW360 and Fossology
Client
Siemens Knoxville
Period
Nov. 2012 – till Date
Technologies
Java, Struts, MySQL, Hibernate, Web Services(SOAP/REST),HTML,JavaScript,JQUERY, AJAX and SVN.
Role
Technical Analyst 
Team Size
7
Description:	
Software360 (SW360) is a product which is responsible for Projects, components and licence management activities of Siemens departments across all over countries. It is useful to avoid duplicate licences of software’s used by several departments of Siemens and no global database is available to monitor all projects components and their copyrights so far.
SW360 Provides web interface to the managers developers to enrol their project(s) and related softwares also moderators of those softwares as well. After registration fossology does file parsing to verify trusted or untrusted licences which are being used by the registered projects.
Roles and responsibilities:  
• Requirements collection from customers 
• Prototype preparation, involved in all phases of SDLC
• Implementation of components and softwares parser product.
• Developed search engine. 

Project Title
Advanced Patient Handling System in Molecular Imaging
Client
Siemens Knoxville
Period
April. 2013 – till Date
Technologies
Java, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Web services(REST),My SQL, HTML, XML, Java Script,
Role
Developer
Team Size
10
Description:	
 Advanced PHS is a feature implementing for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanner in Health Care domain.
It contains information about Bed positions in horizontal & vertical
Motions while doing the PET Scan, this PHS data can be traced and display latest 10 datasets to the technicians. It includes graph representations of latest data set and crystal report generation in PDF format. 
Roles and responsibilities:  
• Involved in feature Design, development and Testing Phases
• Given Presents on feature to Onsite customers
• Took the responsibility to deliver the feature in time with immense quality.
• worked in development phase



Page 1 of 3


SANTOSH M G

Contact number:   9972921429
Email:   santoshmg@gmail.com



Experience summary

       Java/J2EE professional having 6.6 year of total work experience, currently holding technical specialist/lead role in the organization. 

Skills Summary

Java –J2EE
Java, JSP, Servlet , JMS, JDBC, JNDI,Webservice
Framework
JSF, Hibernate
Server
JBoss, Apache Tomcat 
Scripts
JQuery, JavaScript, Ajax
Tracking tools
Jira, Radar
IDE
Eclipse, NetBean
Source Control
SVN, VSS
Database and tools
Oracle 9i/10g, PL/SQL developer
Operating Systems
Windows 2000,XP

Career milestone

• Successfully performing technical lead role by providing technical and project specific solutions to the team.
• Worked in client location (Germany).
• Identified and fixed performance and memory issue.
• Code reviewer for other java based projects.
• Mentoring team members and played vital role in every release of the project.
• Increase the resolution and quality of the UI by replacing the existing graphic tool.

Achievements in Technical Tests /Certifications

• Secured 95% in sun java 1.5 certification examination.


Organizational Experience

Company Name
Designation
Duration
Robert Bosch Engineering and Business solutions Ltd.
Technical Specialist
Aug/07 to till date
IBA Health India Pvt Ltd (Now ISoft)
Product Development Engineer
Jan/06 to May/07
Indian Institute of Science Bangalore
Project Assistant
Jun/04 to Feb/05


Training acquired

Acquired java training from Mansoft Microsystems Bangalore.

Education

Bachelor of Engineering (Mechanical) from Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering (SJCE) Mysore, Karnataka with 70% in 2003.

PUC with 79.3% in 1999.

SSLC with 85% in 1997


Projects Overview


Robert Bosch               
                     PLCD:  Product Life Cycle Database
    
Environment			:  Windows XP Professional 
Design Tool			:  StarUml.
IDE		 		:  Eclipse 3.6 
Technology/Software	:  Java, JSF, JQuery, Webservice, Hibernate, Oracle10g    
Role				:  Technical Specialist
Team size			:  4
	Domain			:  Automobile
          Duration			:  Dec-10 to till date.
	 
PLCD is an end to end solution for the different parts measured under test bench. User can create/modify parts by defining parameters. Parts will be planned for measurement under Test bench using Test Planner module. Decisive action can be taken for the measured part. Project also contains modules like Structure management, Test Management and Visual investigation.

Responsibilities:

• Requirements gathering and tracking.
• Analysis and Designing the module.
• Providing technical assistance to team members.
• TC with the customer.
• Estimation and scheduling.
• Coding and unit testing.
• Mentoring the team members.
• Code reviewer.
• Tracking the technical open points related to project and closure. 


Robert Bosch               
                     ITE:  tools environment
    
Environment			:  Windows XP Professional 
Design Tool			:  StarUml.
IDE		 		:  Eclipse 3.3, 3.4 
Technology/Software	:  Java, Swing java, XML, DOM, JNDI, Servlet, Hibernate,   Oracle 10g,          
Role				:  Senior Software Engineer
Team size			:  6
	Domain			:  Automobile
          Duration			:  October 2008 to November 2009.
	 

ITE tools environment contains two major tools called Racksim and ECalc. These two tools help in defining parameters for the calculation. Racksim defines the rack structure for the tool, associate materials sets and add the different loading forces over the rack. Ecalc defines motor, servo and sensor transmission parameters, and gear and belt parameters. Both the tools can generate customized reports. ITE also provides Project management and User management facilities.

Responsibilities:

• Requirements gathering and tracking.
• Writing development functional specification.
• TC with the customer.
• Estimation and scheduling.
• Analysis and Designing the module.
• Coding and unit testing.
• Mentoring the team members.
• Release of the project
• Code reviewer.
• Tracking the open points related to project and closure. 

   Robert Bosch                           
                       ZPP:  Post Processor
    
Environment			:  Windows XP Professional 
Design Tool			:  IBM Rational Rose architect.
IDE		 		:  Eclipse 3.4
          Technology/Software	:  Java, Hibernate, JNDI, XML, ILog graphic tool, 						Oracle 10g 
Role				:  Senior Software Engineer
Team size			:  3
	Domain			:  Automobile
          Duration			:  Aug 2007 to September 2008.
	 

Post Processor is a data visualization tool, which helps in analyzing the data of the chasis system in the form of Ilog chart. The chasis system preprocessor produces the xml data files (Result files) have been used as an input files for Post Processor. The tool produces the 2D charts using result file variable values .Tool provides the filtering option to filter out the variables based on unit type. User can customize the aesthetic appearance of the chart. User can change the result file data and will be updated in the chart display while tool is running. 

Responsibilities:

• Requirements gathering.
• Writing development functional specification
• Analysis and designing the module.
• Coding and unit testing.
• Identifying and fixing the defects
• Reviewing the code and Reporting
• Release of the project


IBA Health
eHIS
    
Environment			:  Windows XP Professional
Technology/Software	:  JSP, Servlets, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, Oracle 9i
Role				:  Product Development Engineer
Team size			:  8
	Domain			:  Healthcare
          Period				:  From Jan 2006 to May 2007.
	 
eHIS is a web enabled application that automates a facility, validates and manages transaction inside a facility. Clinical Access, a major part of the application provides a care provider with the information center for viewing and recording clinical and para-clinical information of patient. 

Clinical Access module provides:

• Desktop helps to schedule and manage appointments.
• Theater booking and planned admission by inpatient booking.
• Reviewing the documents, reports and notes of various documents
• Pending reviews function where the provider can authorize the orders ,
• Cosign the order, sign various notes, and review the investigation records.
• To monitor patient orders by locations, nursing station and based on provider patient relationship.
• The care provider view task lists perform the order reporting schedule appointment, perform the elective case inpatient booking, operation theater booking, view the appointment.

Responsibilities:

• Analysis of Functional specifications.
• Involved in HLD and LLD of the application.
• Coding the Server-Side and client side components.
• Involved in Testing of different modules.


IISC
Coating analysis for shaft pin.
    
Environment			:  Windows XP Professional
Technology	:  Nano tribology
Role				:  Project Assistant
Team size			:  2
	Domain			:  Mechanical
          Period				:  From June 2004 to Feb 2005 on Contract basis.
	

Responsibilities:
       
• Microscopic analysis of indents on different kinds of pin.
• Conducting experiment on different material coated bearing pins.
• Analysis of experimental readings and reporting.

Communication, Planning, and
Team Work
Plays a major role in my development and releasing the project versions.
Played customer coordinator role.
Mentored the team members effectively.
Presentation and
Documentation Skills
Technical and project specific presentations to the team.
Hobbies
Chess player, Cricket, Table Tennis, Reading etc

References available on request


Shahid Hikmat 
 
Software Developer
 
 
• Current Designation: Application Developer
• Current Company: Shahid Hikmat
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Pune,Chennai
• Functional Area: IT Software - Other
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 14 Apr 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 3 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.40 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7795753123Verified
 
• Email: shahid.hikmat89@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Naya bazar yateem khana road Dhanbad Jharkand, dhanbad - 826001
 
• Key Skills: IT professionals .Eg: cache,Zen, java ,c,c++,oracle,SQl,STRUTS,HIBENATE
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 6c6aa93b03b6728151Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Oct-14

                                                   Shahid Hikmat
                                             Mobile No-7795753123
			Email shahid.hikmat89@gmail.com

Objective:

Looking for a challenging and responsible opportunity, explore strengths and potentials in a professional organization to meet employer’s expectation
	
Educational  Qualification:
Period
   Qualification
Board/University  
Percentage

   
2012
  B-Tech(C.S.E)
Vinoba Bhave  University
      73   
2006
Intermediate
Jharkhand Academic Council
      54
2004
High school
C.B.S.E
      57

Experience:
Working in 3i-Infotech from 19th November 2013 As a Software Developer .

• Job Title:  Application Developer 

• Experience : Working As a software Developer  in  3i-Infotech  since 19 November till now


• Location: Bangalore

Certification

• Completion of training on J2EE in  Websphere  Application from  IBM  Kolkata
• Completion of training on J2SE  from   Ipex   Dhanbad	    

Skill  Profile

• Programming Languages                         :Java 
• JEE Technologies 		           : Servlet,JSP
• Web Technologies                                   : HTML.
• Database Packages                                 : Oracle  10G
• Framework                                               : Struts 2.x,  Hibernate, Spring
• IDE		       	: Eclipse,MyEclipse, NetBeans
                    
Academic Project Profile

• Project Title        : Pics  Paint
• Role                    : Programmer
• Team Size          : 5
• Description   -:
                       A graphics program that enables you to draw pictures on the 
Display screen which is represented as bit maps. In contrast, draw programs use vector graphics, which scale better in the form of icons .By selecting an icon, we can perform functions associated with the tool addition to these tools, paint programs also provide easy ways to draw common shapes such as straight lines, rectangles, circles and ovals etc.

Personal Details:

Name                    : Shahid Hikmat
Father’s Name      : Late Md Inam Uddin
Date of Birth         : 14 / 04/ 1989.
Alternate Email     : nazimhikmat89gmail.com
Hobby                   : Playing Chess and Reading books
Present Address   : Sri Balagi Gents PG
                                #168 3rd main,
		          Near uddupi Garden
                                BTM   Layout 1st Stage, Bangalore

	

			I shall be ready to abide by all the rules and regulation furnished by the management concerned


Place:	Bangalore                                                             Shahid Hikmat
Date:									
                                                                                

SHAMEER THAHA                                                                                         shameertk7@gmail.com                                                                                
                  	                       Mobile: 91- 9740781527



Professional Summary

➢ Currently working with IBM as Technical Lead having 7 Years of experience in IT Industry.

➢ Extensive experience in analysis, design and development of web based & distributed applications using Java-J2ee Technologies. 
	
➢ Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture.

➢ Experience working in Telecom(At&t) and Automotive(General Motors) Domain.

➢ Client Side Exposure at General Motors – Detroit, USA (2007).  


Certifications:

• OCMJEA - Oracle Certified Master Java EE 5 Enterprise Architect - Part1  (2011).

• SCWCD -  Sun Certified Web Component Developer (2009).

• SCJP     -  Sun Certified Java Programmer (2008).


Technical Exposure:

• Web Technology              :    JSP, Servlet, Adobe Flex, Java Script 

• J2ee Frameworks             :    Struts, Spring, Hibernate. 

• SOA                                :    Web Services, SOAP, XSD, WSDL, JMS

• Database/OS	               :     PL-SQL, Oracle 10g,  Unix

• Web/App Servers             :    Web Logic 10.3, Apache Tomcat

• Development Tools           :    Oracle Workshop 10g, SQL Developer, Load Runner.


Work Experience:
   
➢ Sept’10  - Ongoing           :    Technical Lead,  IBM Bangalore

➢ Aug 2009- Sept’10           :    Senior System Engineer,  IBM Bangalore
	
➢ March 2006-Aug 2009      :    Technology Consultant,  hp Bangalore 

➢ Feb 2005-March 06          :    Programmer Analyst,  Syntel Mumbai












Educational Qualification:

➢ 2005-‘06                         :    Diploma in Business Management, ICFAI University, Hyderabad. 

➢ 2000-‘04                         :    B.Tech - Information Technology , Cochin University , Kerala.


Achievements:

• Received award from IBM for outstanding work in VAI Redesign and Implementation, Sept 2011.

• Received award from IBM for outstanding contribution to AT&T Calnet Project in Q3, 2010.

• Received e-award from hp for significant contribution towards improving quality and availability of GM TT Tool and enhancing Customer satisfaction (GM) in Sept 2008.

• Received Appreciation from hp for submitting Technical white Paper “Next Generation Web Technology” in April 2006.


Visa Details:

• Business Visa for USA - B1 (Valid from Feb 2007 to Feb 2017)


IT Experience




Technical Lead, IBM Bangalore, India, Sept ’10 – ‘Till Date


Team:
NetworX Gateway (Global Computing Platform)


Client:

AT&T - USA.
Synopsis:
GCP (Global Computing Platform) develops AT&T applications and provides Value added services as part of AT&T’s enterprise product portfolio.  
NetworX is one among the different gateway’s under GCP and host multiple web services (NetworX, GLocs) and GUI applications (Calnet VAIN, VAI , NxWeb).

Environment:

• JSP, Struts, Web Services, SOAP, XSD, WSDL, JMS, PL-SQL, Oracle Workshop 10g, SQL Developer, WebLogic 10.3, Oracle, UNIX



Role

• Lead the 6 member NetworX Development Team.
• Responsible for planning and tracking the day today activities of team members and providing them with technical solutions.
• Work with AT&T architect Team in gathering the Requirements.
• Coding, Review and Release Coordination.
• Coordinate with ETL, DBA and Testing Team.







Senior System Engineer, IBM Bangalore, India, Aug ’09 – Aug’10

Project Title:
Calnet Vain Redesign 


Client:

AT&T - USA.

Synopsis:
View Analyze Inventory and Notices (VAIN) application allows users to search, view, print, download inventory and notice information. The application was having lots of performance issues and Vain Redesign project successfully addressed these issues with new Vain architecture. 

Environment:

• JSP, Struts, Web Services, JMS, PL-SQL, Oracle Workshop 10g, SQL Developer, WebLogic 10.3, Oracle, UNIX



Role

• Get Requirements from AT&T architect Team (US).
• Work with Architect Team in Application Design.
• Lead the Calnet Vain Module in design and coding.
• Coding, Review and Release Coordination.
• Coordinate with ETL, DB and Testing Team.





Technology Consultant-I, Hewlett Packard, Bangalore, India, Jan ’08 – Aug 2009.

Project Title:
GM Time Tracking and Reporting Tool 


Clients:

General Motors –USA

Synopsis:
GM TTTool is a web based Product from hp which is used by different General Motor’s IT Vendors across the globe. GM TTTool assists GM-IS&S (GM Information Systems and Solutions) Team to manage their IT Projects across different GM domains like GMAC, GPD etc. 
The product offers Effort, Billing and Reporting solution which includes various metrics related to effort management and generates various customized billing reports. 

Environment:

• JSP, Flex, Struts, Hibernate, PL-SQL, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Load Runner, Dev Inspect, Eclipse 3.1, Flex Builder, Oracle 10g and HP-Unix. 



Role

• Get Requirements from Project Managers of different GM Domains and customize the product for each domain.
• Lead the Offshore Team for application development.
• Responsible for adding innovative features and modernizing the Product.
• Code Review and Release Coordination.
        
        



Software Engineer, Hewlett Packard, Chennai/Detroit, India, March ’06 – Dec ‘07.


Project Title:
Financial Tools 


Client:

General Motors Acceptance Corporation - USA.

Synopsis:
GMAC Financial Services, subsidiary of GM offers automotive, residential & commercial financing and insurance. 
Financial Tools is a web application serving consumers in multiple countries. Fin Tools offers a set of Financial Tools to assist consumers in calculating Affordability & monthly payments, Choosing convenient finance options, Obtaining Credit approvals and Auto payments.

Environment:

• JSP, Servlets, Struts, Web Services, Eclipse 3.1, Web Logic 8.1,      Borland Star Team, Oracle 9g & hp-unix.



Role

• Get Requirements from GMAC Business Manager (UK).
• Application Development and on time Project delivery.
• Coordinate with IBM and other supply chain vendors of GMAC.
• Worked from Client Side, Detroit from Feb 07 to May 07. 





 Programmer Analyst, Syntel India Ltd, Mumbai, India, Feb ’05 – March ‘06.


Project Title:

Web Enrollment 5.3


Client:

Humana Health Care – Kentucky USA.

Synopsis:

Humana offers health insurance coverage and related services through 
traditional and Internet-based plans to employer groups, government-sponsored plans, and individuals.  
Web Enrollment is the online web based interface for the Employer as well Member to enroll into the Humana Health Insurance plan.
Environment:
• JSP, Servlets, Java Script, EJB, XML, DB2, VSS.

Role:

• Getting requirement from Onsite Coordinator.
• Application Development based on Customer requirements.



shiva lingam.D 
 
Shiva Jr Java Developer with Experience of 1.2yrs.
With Skills like java,JDBC,HTML,XMl,JS
 
 
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Anywhere in South India
• Functional Area: IT Software - Systems / EDP / MIS
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 10 Jan 1988 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.05 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Energy]
• Phone: 9618451851 Duplicate Number
 
• Email: dslg453@gmail.com Verified
• Address: dslg453@gmail.com, hyderabad - 500013
 
• Key Skills: Java,JDBC,SERVLETS,Struts,HTML,XML,JAVA SCRIPT
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 4a6267e93ca733ad89Last Active: 16-Oct-14Last Modified: 9-Oct-14

RESUME 

Shiva lingam.D						Cell    : +91 9618451851
      					 E-mail:shivalingam45@gmail.com
							

CAREER OBJECTIVE
To learn and function effectively in an organization and be able to deliver to the bottom-line. To constantly upgrade my knowledge and skills and make a difference in whatever I do.

ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION
Degree / Qualification
Year
B.Tech [JNTUH]
2012
MPC  [Board of Intermediate Education]
2008
SSC  [Board of Secondary Education]
2005

COMPUTER SKILL

➢ Operating Systems		: Windows Familys/Hardware&Networking
➢ Graphical User Interface	: MS-Office, MS-Excel
➢ Languages			:  Java, Core java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Hibernates, HTML,
                                                    Java Script.XML.                                                         
➢ Database			: Oracle, MySql.
➢ IDE Tools			: Eclipse, EditPlus, Netbeans.


STRENGTH

➢ Sincerity & Punctuality
➢ Self Motivated & Self Learner
➢ Positive Attitude
➢ Hard Working Nature




PROJECT
• COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
➢ Abstract: The purpose of this project is to provide the complaint for different products and getting reply from the product handling
➢ Technology used: JAVA.
      Personal Profile:

      Date of Birth                  	 :   	22-01-1988
      Father’s Name                   :  	D. Hanumanthu
      Gender                             	 :   	Male
 Marital Status                 	 :  	Single
      Nationality                       	 :   	Indian
      Hobbies        	             :         Painting, Playing Cricket and etc.                                                              
      Languages known             :          English, Hindi and Telugu

             
 
                                                      DECLARATION:
       I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge 

      
      PLACE: Hyderabad..							(D Shiva Lingam)



Shubham Taneja

                                                                                         shubham.taneja@gmail.com
                                                                                         +91-7259300332
                                                                                                                        EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

• Have 6 years of experience in Software Development in Java/J2EE.
• Currently Working with Mahindra Satyam as Project Lead 
• Previously worked with Wipro Technologies as a Module Lead. 
• Have experience in all phases of SDLC. 
• Good knowledge of Telecom Domain.
• Currently working on Telcordia Number Portability Gateway Solution for implementing Number Portability.

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS

• Provided support during critical hours of the project as and when required.
• Many times played the role of the key member in the team and resolved critical issues meeting SLAs.
• Mentoring new resources and bringing up their competence to match with the team.
• Involved in GUI designing and its development. 
• Received many appreciation mails from the client.
• Experience in conducting client presentations.
• Knowledge of telecom domain, worked on projects based on IP QoS, IP Routing, Single Sign On, IVR, Voice Mail, Voice Over IP, WAP and Number Portability.
• Coordinated the implementation of lean methodology in the project.
• Zeal to learn and provide quality deliverables and adapt to new emerging technologies.
	

Core Competencies:
Software Development

• Experience in Java/J2EE based projects.
• Currently working on Telcordia’s Number Portability Gateway product.
• Proficient exposure in developing applications using technologies like Core Java, JSP, EJB and JDBC. 
• Experience in Web Services.
• Expertise to work with databases like My SQL and Oracle.
• Familiar with testing tools like Junit.

Project Management
• Tracking efforts of the team and generating report for the same.
• Applying lean methodology to the project.
• Analyzing requirements and providing best possible solution to the customer.
• Coming up with estimation based on the solution provided.


TECHNICAL SKILLS

• Language			       Java
• Development Technologies          J2EE, JSP, JDBC, HTML, EJB, XSLT, WML, XML, XHTML
                                                      Web Services, JMS                                                                 
• Domain Skills			       GSM, GPRS, Single Sign On,  IVR, Voice Mail, VoIP,
                                                       IP QoS                                                                                                          
• RDBMS                                           Oracle 9i, 10g, MS SQL Server
• Defect Management Tools	       ON-TRAC, Rational ClearQuest      
• Configuration Mgmt. Tools            CVS, Tortoise SVN
• Editors/IDE                                    JBuilder, Eclipse, vi                 
• Operating System		        MS DOS, Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP, UNIX
• Application/Web Servers              Tomcat, JBoss

PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION

• Post Graduation
Qualification: 		MS in Software Engineering (7.69 CGPA)
University:		BITS Pilani, Rajasthan
Year of Passing:		2009
• Graduation
Qualification: 		Bachelor of Science (74%)
University:		University of Delhi 
Year of Passing:		2005





MAJOR PROJECTS HANDLED
The details of the various projects undertaken in sequence are listed below:

Project #1
Project Title
WIPAF (Wipro Application Framework)
Customer
Wipro Internal Project, Center of Excellence Division
Period
October 2005 - February 2007
Description
WIPAF involved the development of an application framework and plug-ins for various services like presence, identity management, single-sign on, location and charging. Also development of various PoC’s based on forthcoming profitable prospects for Wipro and showcased related them during Customer visits and forums held worldwide. Learning new technologies, writing papers, giving presentations on various areas such as VoIP, Lean etc. for a common learning platform thus beneficial for company. These PoC’s included applications such as Car Pooling Application, RSS Feed Reader, DRM (Digital Rights Management), Video Streaming and ticket purchase portal and Voice over IP solutions.
Roles
  Java Developer
Responsibilities
• Contribution towards various developments of various plug-ins and PoC's. like RSS feed reader, DRM (Digital Rights Management), Ticket purchase portal, Voice over IP solution, Single-sign on and Charging plug-in, Video on Demand, Charging CDR’s. 
• Developed the solution of VoIP Peering concept (Pure IP-IP Calls). Authored a paper on same.
• Carrying out product demos to customers.
• Training new team members.
• Preparing and giving presentations to customers.
• Quality coordinator for the team.
• Implemented LEAN methodology in the project.
• Team Effort tracking.
• Preparing Weekly Status Reports 
Team size
8
Technologies /Frameworks/ Tools
Java/J2EE,  UNIX, vi, My SQL, Windows-XP, Eclipse, CGI/Perl Scripts, CVS2SVN


Project #2
Project Title
Number Portability Gateway(NPG)
Customer
Telcordia Technologies, US 
Period
February 2007 – till date
Description
Number Portability is a term used when a user changes from one Telecom operator to another without changing is number. Telcordia Number Portability Gateway (NPG) provides a single, operator-based contact point for mobile operators to manage the complex interfaces, message processing, and transaction data associated with number portability requirements. This gateway can help to reduce operator costs related to number portability by contributing to increased flow through of port requests and simplifying management of both internal and external systems interfaces while supporting operator growth across all subscriber segments and number types. There are external system like NEMS and OSS with which the gateway interacts in order to complete the flow. The number portability solution by Telcordia is used by operators in Pakistan, Mexico, Oman and few other countries.
Responsibilities
• Worked on number portability gateway application as a Java developer. 
• Also performed testing for the same. 
• Worked on various development releases for Telecom customers like Telcel, Nextel, Telmex. 
• Handled SOAP Interface module development/enhancement/MR’s completely for different NPC’s like Telcordia, Syniverse. 
• Provided live support to customer during installation in their environment and Go-Live in their respective country. 
• Solved various customer production issues and internal MRs/TRs. 
• Prepared design documents for the project during pre-India release.
•  Trained new members through KT and presentations.
• Worked on re-architecture of the application using design patterns and Java 5.
• Currently working on Indian Number Portability Implementation with various Indian Mobile Operators.
Team Size
35
Technologies /Frameworks/ Tools
Java, XML, EJB, JBoss, Windows-XP,UNIX, SOAP, XSLT, WSDL




OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS
    
• Completed FCG Java 105: Java 1.5 certification of Wipro Technologies .
• VelociQ101 Certification: For quality standards and best practices at Wipro Technologies.
• Software Configuration Management Certification.
• Good appraisal ratings in the assignments undertaken till now.

PERSONAL DETAILS
       
Father’s Name		:	Dr. V.K Taneja
Date of Birth & Age		:	10th October 1984 
Permanent Address		:	B - 282, Derawal Nagar
       Delhi-110009 (INDIA)	
Telephone			:	+91-7259300332
E-mail				:	shubham.taneja@gmail.com
Shubham Taneja

                                                                                         shubham.taneja@gmail.com
                                                                                         +91-7259300332
                                                                                                                        EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

• Have 6 years of experience in Software Development in Java/J2EE.
• Currently Working with Mahindra Satyam as Project Lead 
• Previously worked with Wipro Technologies as a Module Lead. 
• Have experience in all phases of SDLC. 
• Good knowledge of Telecom Domain.
• Currently working on Telcordia Number Portability Gateway Solution for implementing Number Portability.

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS

• Provided support during critical hours of the project as and when required.
• Many times played the role of the key member in the team and resolved critical issues meeting SLAs.
• Mentoring new resources and bringing up their competence to match with the team.
• Involved in GUI designing and its development. 
• Received many appreciation mails from the client.
• Experience in conducting client presentations.
• Knowledge of telecom domain, worked on projects based on IP QoS, IP Routing, Single Sign On, IVR, Voice Mail, Voice Over IP, WAP and Number Portability.
• Coordinated the implementation of lean methodology in the project.
• Zeal to learn and provide quality deliverables and adapt to new emerging technologies.
	

Core Competencies:
Software Development

• Experience in Java/J2EE based projects.
• Currently working on Telcordia’s Number Portability Gateway product.
• Proficient exposure in developing applications using technologies like Core Java, JSP, EJB and JDBC. 
• Experience in Web Services.
• Expertise to work with databases like My SQL and Oracle.
• Familiar with testing tools like Junit.

Project Management
• Tracking efforts of the team and generating report for the same.
• Applying lean methodology to the project.
• Analyzing requirements and providing best possible solution to the customer.
• Coming up with estimation based on the solution provided.


TECHNICAL SKILLS

• Language			       Java
• Development Technologies          J2EE, JSP, JDBC, HTML, EJB, XSLT, WML, XML, XHTML
                                                      Web Services, JMS                                                                 
• Domain Skills			       GSM, GPRS, Single Sign On,  IVR, Voice Mail, VoIP,
                                                       IP QoS                                                                                                          
• RDBMS                                           Oracle 9i, 10g, MS SQL Server
• Defect Management Tools	       ON-TRAC, Rational ClearQuest      
• Configuration Mgmt. Tools            CVS, Tortoise SVN
• Editors/IDE                                    JBuilder, Eclipse, vi                 
• Operating System		        MS DOS, Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP, UNIX
• Application/Web Servers              Tomcat, JBoss

PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION

• Post Graduation
Qualification: 		MS in Software Engineering (7.69 CGPA)
University:		BITS Pilani, Rajasthan
Year of Passing:		2009
• Graduation
Qualification: 		Bachelor of Science (74%)
University:		University of Delhi 
Year of Passing:		2005





MAJOR PROJECTS HANDLED
The details of the various projects undertaken in sequence are listed below:

Project #1
Project Title
WIPAF (Wipro Application Framework)
Customer
Wipro Internal Project, Center of Excellence Division
Period
October 2005 - February 2007
Description
WIPAF involved the development of an application framework and plug-ins for various services like presence, identity management, single-sign on, location and charging. Also development of various PoC’s based on forthcoming profitable prospects for Wipro and showcased related them during Customer visits and forums held worldwide. Learning new technologies, writing papers, giving presentations on various areas such as VoIP, Lean etc. for a common learning platform thus beneficial for company. These PoC’s included applications such as Car Pooling Application, RSS Feed Reader, DRM (Digital Rights Management), Video Streaming and ticket purchase portal and Voice over IP solutions.
Roles
  Java Developer
Responsibilities
• Contribution towards various developments of various plug-ins and PoC's. like RSS feed reader, DRM (Digital Rights Management), Ticket purchase portal, Voice over IP solution, Single-sign on and Charging plug-in, Video on Demand, Charging CDR’s. 
• Developed the solution of VoIP Peering concept (Pure IP-IP Calls). Authored a paper on same.
• Carrying out product demos to customers.
• Training new team members.
• Preparing and giving presentations to customers.
• Quality coordinator for the team.
• Implemented LEAN methodology in the project.
• Team Effort tracking.
• Preparing Weekly Status Reports 
Team size
8
Technologies /Frameworks/ Tools
Java/J2EE,  UNIX, vi, My SQL, Windows-XP, Eclipse, CGI/Perl Scripts, CVS2SVN


Project #2
Project Title
Number Portability Gateway(NPG)
Customer
Telcordia Technologies, US 
Period
February 2007 – till date
Description
Number Portability is a term used when a user changes from one Telecom operator to another without changing is number. Telcordia Number Portability Gateway (NPG) provides a single, operator-based contact point for mobile operators to manage the complex interfaces, message processing, and transaction data associated with number portability requirements. This gateway can help to reduce operator costs related to number portability by contributing to increased flow through of port requests and simplifying management of both internal and external systems interfaces while supporting operator growth across all subscriber segments and number types. There are external system like NEMS and OSS with which the gateway interacts in order to complete the flow. The number portability solution by Telcordia is used by operators in Pakistan, Mexico, Oman and few other countries.
Responsibilities
• Worked on number portability gateway application as a Java developer. 
• Also performed testing for the same. 
• Worked on various development releases for Telecom customers like Telcel, Nextel, Telmex. 
• Handled SOAP Interface module development/enhancement/MR’s completely for different NPC’s like Telcordia, Syniverse. 
• Provided live support to customer during installation in their environment and Go-Live in their respective country. 
• Solved various customer production issues and internal MRs/TRs. 
• Prepared design documents for the project during pre-India release.
•  Trained new members through KT and presentations.
• Worked on re-architecture of the application using design patterns and Java 5.
• Currently working on Indian Number Portability Implementation with various Indian Mobile Operators.
Team Size
35
Technologies /Frameworks/ Tools
Java, XML, EJB, JBoss, Windows-XP,UNIX, SOAP, XSLT, WSDL




OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS
    
• Completed FCG Java 105: Java 1.5 certification of Wipro Technologies .
• VelociQ101 Certification: For quality standards and best practices at Wipro Technologies.
• Software Configuration Management Certification.
• Good appraisal ratings in the assignments undertaken till now.

PERSONAL DETAILS
       
Father’s Name		:	Dr. V.K Taneja
Date of Birth & Age		:	10th October 1984 
Permanent Address		:	B - 282, Derawal Nagar
       Delhi-110009 (INDIA)	
Telephone			:	+91-7259300332
E-mail				:	shubham.taneja@gmail.com
sonu shivhare 
 
BE (computer science) software developer
 
 
• Current Designation: no
• Current Company: no
• Current Designation: no
• Current Company: no
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - System Programming
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 01 Jun 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.05 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9742517215
 
• Email: sonu.shivhare143@gmail.com Verified ,
sonu.shivhare143@gmail.com
• Address: c/o dhani ram shivhare gosh pura no 1 near arya shmaj mandir ke pass hazira gwalior (m.p), gwalior - 474003
 
• Key Skills: core java,jdbc,servlet,jsp,struts 1.x,struts 2.x ,hibernet
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 0dd0927103a5833769Last Active: 20-Sep-14Last Modified: 20-Sep-14


Sonu Shivhare

Mobile : +91-9742517215                                             	 E-Mail : sonu.shivhare143@gmail.com

Objective                                             


       To achieve a challenging position in Software Development in a result oriented company, where acquired skills and education will be utilized towards continuous growth and advancement with challenging projects.      



Summary of Experience                                                  


• Having 2 years of Experience in IT Industry in Developing Web Based and Enterprise Applications using   Java  and  J2EE Technologies. 
• Experience in Developing Applications using CoreJava ,JDBC,Servlet,Jsp,Struts.1.x,STRuTS.2.x.
• Experience in J2EE Design Patterns.

Organizational Experience 

• Working for I-Tech Technologies  Pvt Ltd, Bangalore from August 2012 to till date.

Academic Background                                                

• BE (computer science) from Gwalior in 2012

Skill Set                                               

Operating System		: 	Windows 7/98/2000/XP
Languages/Scripts		: 	Java, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML
J2EE Technologies		: 	JDBC, Servlet, JSP, Struts.1x,Struts.2.x
App/Web Servers		: 	Web logic,  Apache Tomcat 
RDBMS			: 	Oracle-10g, MySQL
IDE				:             Eclipse, My Eclipse





PROJECT PROFILE:
PROJECT#1          :  Health care system               			  (February 2013- till date)

Client Name          :  cala provincial hospital, South Africa
Team Size             :  8
Role                       :  Member Technical Staff
Environment         : Core Java, JSP, Struts, Hibernate,  Eclipse
Description           :

Description   :
       This project is a total solution for Hospital Administration, seamlessly integrates the activities and functions of various entities involved in a typical health care environment like Patients, Doctors, Tests and Scans, Treatments, Blood Bank. Provides facility to compensate doctors in multiple ways based upon number of visits, number of patients examined salary or revenue sharing with hospital on the billing of the patients examined and /or treated.

Responsibilities:
• Designing JSP’s as per the Requirement.
• Implementing Action Classes.
• Implementing Form Beans and their Validations.
• Implementing Custom Validations as per the Requirement.
• Implementing Page layouts using Tiles Framework.
• Writing Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations.
• Injecting Spring Services into Struts Action classes.
• Writing DAO’s and their implementations With Hibernate.
• Injecting Spring DAO’s into Spring Services.




Personal Detail
Nationality
Indian
Date of Birth                           
1th Jun 1990
Gender
Male
Languages Known  
English, Hindi,
Permanent Add.              
C/o dhani ram shivhare gosh pura no 1 hazira Gwalior pin.no-474003.



										 Sonu Shivhare
4


Srikanth Nuthakki                               
L&T Infotech
Email: Srikanth.nuthakki@gmail.com
Phone: +91-9840374957, +91-8015410248

Experience Summary 
• Working as a Tech Lead in L&T Infotech Ltd., Chennai; having around 5 years of experience in data warehousing projects.
• Experience in design and development of Ab-Initio Graphs, Plans and Unix scripts.
• Experience in Autosys Job scheduling.
• Involved in all stages of SDLC including requirements gathering, design, development, testing and implementation. Understanding of Quality Assurance processes followed during different phases of development lifecycle.

Qualifications
Examination
Institution
Year of Passing
Percentage/CGPA
M.Tech
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ROORKEE ( IIT-R)
2006
8.29/10
 B.Tech
Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 
2002
76.87

Technology
Below is a list of important hardware, software products, tools and methods that I have worked with.	

Operating Systems
Unix , Windows 9X/XP, Sun OS 5.8
Languages / Scripting
UNIX shell scripting, C, C++, Java
RDBMS
Oracle 9i
ETL Tools
Ab-Initio (GDE-1.13.7  Co-op 2.12.2 ),(GDE-1.14.5,  GDE-1.15  Co-op 2.15.6.5), SQL Server 2000 (DTS)
COTS Products
Ea-Direct
Database tools
TOAD, PL/SQL Developer
Analysis tools
ANSYS® 9.0,  Hyper Mesh 6.0,  Pro E
IDEs / tools
Visual Basic, Clarify
Methodology
Agile methodology

Career Profile
Dates
Organization
Role
Sep 2002 to Jul 2004
Vignan Institute of Information Technology, Visakhapatnam, A.P.
Lecturer
Since Aug,2006 to Jan 2010
TATA Consultancy Services, Chennai
Team Member
Jan 2010 to Jun 2010 
Capgemini, Chennai
Consultant
Jul 2010 to Till date
L&T Infotech Chennai
Tech Lead

Professional Memberships / Certifications 
1. Sun Certified Programmer for the Java 2 Platform, Standard Edition 5.0 - 310-055          28th Jun 2008
Trainings
Program Course
Coverage
Data Warehousing Concepts
Introductory Session
Informatica ver.8.0
Basics of Informatica ver.8.0
IBM WebSphere DataStage Ver 7.5
• Basics of Data Stage.
• Data Stage Parallelism concepts.
Cognos 8
• Report Studio.
• Frame Work Manager.
• Power Play Transformer

Personal Details
Name
Srikanth Nuthakki
Date of Birth
20-07-1979
Nationality
Indian
Marital Status
Married



Passport Details
Name as on passport
Relationship
Passport Number
Date of Issue
Expiry Date
Place of Issue
Srikanth Nuthakki
Self
B3608132
13/06/2001
12/06/2011
Hyderabad


















Project Thesis 
Project 5
Project Title
GCRR
Client
Citi Bank, USA
Team Size
6
Stage
Development
Duration
Jan 2010 to Jul2010
Description
Global Consumer Risk Reporting group in CITI Bank is responsible developing the different programs to mitigate the risk of loss of collections from its customer. GCRR Team is also responsible to the audit compliance as per US Laws. This Project comprises of different modules [FRS, RCN, WHS, WHDQ, CIR, BM, PEARL, MS] in multiple phases which involves migration of SQL views and materialised views to Abinitio graphs, enhancements to existing graphs and graph development for new requirements.
LC20 application is first module where data is collected from all the countries where CITI bank is operating. This data is then cleansed and consolidated using Abinitio as ETL tool. Once data is prepared Cognos Reporting is used to generate various reports to monitor the performance of programs using different metrics. We are also providing the Roll-Out Support for different countries.

Roles  & Responsibilities
Ab-Initio Developer
• Design and development of Abinitio Graphs, Plans, Unix scripts and Autosys JIL files
• Performing Unit testing and integration testing for the ETL's or scripts that has been developed.
• Involved in preparing deployment documents, Code Migration Documents while handing the code to QA.
• Resolving the issues faced during the test cycles in QA environment.
• Ensure timely deliveries to Clients.
• Scheduled job automation processes Using Autosys.
Solution Environment
Hardware environment – AIX
Software environment as mentioned below:
Client S/W  :  Ab Initio-GDE
Server Software: Unix scripts, Ab Initio GDE -1.15  Co-op .2.15.7.9 
Database : Oracle 10g





Project 4
Project Title
Integrated Risk Portal – SAFE to RAPID Migration
Client
Citi Cards, USA
Team Size
7
Stage
Development
Duration
Jan 2010 to Jun 2010
Description
The Objective of the project is to migrate SAFE Risk limits and create new facility in RAPID system, and provide way forward to allow limits attributes for all SAFE products to be entered in RAPID and feed SAFE automatically.

Currently limits for SAFE products are maintained both in SAFE and RAPID. Rapid is the golden source of facility and limit data and as such all facilities and limit attributes should be entered and maintained. A key reason why these limits are currently entered and maintained in SAFE is because RAPID does not provide a way to record all of the limit attributes used by Risk Management to monitor SAFE Business (Financing, Equity, Fixed Income Cash, Futures and Listed Options). 
Roles  & Responsibilities
Developer
• Perl and UNIX scripts study and fine tuning the same.
• Creating Perl scripts and stored procedures for creating new facilities.
Solution Environment
Server Software: Unix scripts, Perl
Database : Sybase

Project 3
Project Title
BI CSM (Collections Server Migration)
Client
Citi Cards, USA
Team Size
10
Stage
Development
Duration
Dec 2008 to Jan 2010 
Description
The Objective of the project is to cater to the reporting needs of CITI Managers for Collections and Recovery data of Real Estate and Personal Loans. 
It involved fork lifting the CITI CFNA model from SQL Server 2000 environment to SQL Server 2005 environment as the later is more supported and maintainable. This included the effort to migrate staging and part of ETL processing (implemented using SQL Server 2000 DTS) from SQL Server 2000 data warehouse to SQL Server 2005. The other part of ETL is currently redeveloped in Ab Initio. The ETL process scheduling is being done with Maestro.
Roles  & Responsibilities
Ab-Initio Developer
• Understanding and documenting the existing business model and client requirements from legacy system (SQL Server 2000 Data Transformation services).
• Preparing the high level design (HLD) and workflows from legacy system.
• Preparing source target mappings from legacy system.
• Ab-initio Graph design and development as per HLD.
• Reviewing and verifying the mappings and workflows as per the High level design (HLD) and Standard check list.
• Performing Unit testing and integration testing for the ETL's or scripts that has been developed.
• Involved in preparing production deployment documents like Maestro scheduling documents, ETL source target mappings and Migration Documents while handing the code to QA.
• Supporting the Production run of the Abinitio graphs for a period of one month.
Solution Environment
Hardware environment – Sun Solaris
Software environment as mentioned below:
Client S/W  :  Ab Initio-GDE, MS SQL Enterprise Manager
Server Software: Unix scripts, Ab Initio GDE -1.14.5  Co-op .2.15.6.5 
Database : MS SQL 2000
Tools
MS SQL Enterprise Manager


Project 2
Project Title
SCOPE COLLECTIONS
Client
Citi Cards, USA
Team Size
20
Stage
Development
Duration
June 2008 to Nov 2008 
Description
The Objective of the project was to provide an efficient way to get funds back from the delinquent customers what they owe to Citibank. It includes various systems like Dialer system Interface, Skip Trace Interface and Default System Interfaces. 
The Dialer system Interface extracts the delinquent customers information from Chordiant Collections System, process the information based on Business criteria and sends to corresponding auto dialer sites. It also receives the information from auto dialer site, loads the data into Chordiant Collections System and accordingly determines further  business steps as required. It also triggers DON’T CALL notifications to all dialer sites every 15 mins for those who clears the payments.
Skip Trace Interface is to interface with the third party credit information services System to get the potential contact numbers of the customers to maximize collection and skip tracing efforts. Ab Initio process processes internal data and identifies those accounts that are in lack of potential contact numbers. A Unix process will be sending those details to third party system. Once the potential contact numbers are available Ab-Initio process updates Chordiant Collections System vendor_skip tables. It also does the validations on the data and finalizes if the contact number can be used to call or not.
Default System Interface is to process and identify the delinquent accounts information, who are default even on collection system and send the details to the RMS (Recovery Management System). Also process the inputs from RMS to determine appropriate queue placement, case status and recalls.
The legacy system was implemented in Mainframes and VB as a front-end. The new system includes Chordiant Collections System with Oracle back-end and Ab Initio extracts data from various interfaces process as per business criteria and load/send to target systems.
Roles  & Responsibilities
Ab-Initio Developer
• Performed Source system analysis (SSA) and prepared Low level design (LLD) documents.
• Ab-initio Graph design and development as per LLD.
• Reviewing and verifying the mappings and workflows as per the High level design (HLD) and Standard check list.
• Performing Unit testing and integration testing for the ETL's or scripts that has been developed.
• Involved in preparing deployment documents, Code Migration Documents while handing the code to QA.
• Resolving the issues faced during the test cycles in QA environment.
Solution Environment
Hardware environment – Sun Solaris
Software environment as mentioned below:
Client S/W  :  AbInitio-GDE
Server Software: Unix scripts, AbInitio GDE -1.14.5  Co-op .2.15.6.5 
Database : Oracle 9i

Project 1
Project Title
BT-eBPP[Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment]
Client
British Telecom, UK
Team Size
15
Stage
Maintenance & Development
Duration
Oct 2006 to May 2008 
Description
EBPP (Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment) is a web application which hosts the online billing and payment area of BT.com website. EBPP application also allow user to pay their bills online through credit/debit card along with several other payment options. Application interacts with the other systems using web services and oracle stored procedures for various user transactions.
* BT customers can view their telephone bills Online
* Supports both residential and business customers.
* Using graphical representation, customers spend less time in analyzing their bills 
* Call detail reports can be downloaded 
* Supports the Consolidated bills for large customers( CFB)
Roles  & Responsibilities
 1. Application support team member
• Responsible for monitoring the live EBPP application and ensure its availability round the clock.
• Working with environments involving UNIX, J2EE and Oracle.
• Ensuring the Backend processing using Ab-initio Batch Processes which adheres to the SLA limits.
• Handling Live releases BAU and emergency change requests.
• Monitoring and tracking problem records and fixing them.
• Monitoring resource utilization.
• Dealing with Application server issues and issues at the OS and storage level.
• Dealt with a number of production issues and gained ample knowledge through them.
• Gave knowledge transition to the new members of the team to handle production environment.
• Successfully delivered all the releases on-time with no issues.
• Got client appreciations for the team for the online support work done.

2. Ab-Initio Developer
• AbInitio Graphs study and performing modifications during enhancements.
• Development of AbInitio graph.
• Unit & System testing of the developed components in AbInitio.
• Preparing documents for deliverables like Unit test plans and results etc.
Solution Environment
Hardware environment – Sun Solaris
Software environment as mentioned below:
Client S/W  :  Java, AbInitio-GDE, eaDirect Tools
Middleware : Weblogic    
Server Software: Unix scripts, Sun JDK, AbInitio 1.13.7
Database : Oracle
Tools
eaDirect® 4.3, Eclipse, JDeveloper, JBuilder, ANT, Log4j, PL/SQL Developer
Methodology
Agile Methodology





Résumé		                      Srikanth Nuthakki
		 

Page 1 of 3

Mohd Ahamad 
 
Over 1+ years of experience in Java Technology including Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MYSQL, Oracle 10g, Swing and Spring.
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Developer
• Current Company: Orious System Pvt Ltd.
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 15 Jul 1987 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.30 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7795183583Verified
 
• Email: ahamad.cs@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Vill-Golpur, Post-Kichhauchha, Dist-Ambedkarnagar, ambedkarnagar - 224155
 
• Key Skills: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MYSQL, Oracle 10g, Swing and Spring
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 644ea5c3632318bd47Last Active: 20-Sep-14Last Modified: 20-Sep-14Report Resume
 
Jump to Section
Work Experience | Education | IT Skills | Candidate Resume
 

MOHD AHAMAD
E-mail  :  ahamad.cs@gmail.com ~ Mobile : +91-7795183583


Intend to work in a prestigious software organization which extends ample opportunities of growth and learning.
Preferable Location: Bangalore

SYNOPSIS

Over 1+ years of Experience in Java Technology and currently working in Orious System Pvt Ltd Bangalore.
⇨ Worked on the technologies like – Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Spring, Hibernate, HTML/CSS.
⇨ Endowed with a passion for winning as evinced through demonstrated excellence in the academic & extracurricular areas.
⇨ An experienced team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills who has the ability to work independently under pressure can lead, motivate and influence others and can train and mentor subordinates.

Professional Experience

Project 1:
Project Name : “Event Management System”
Task : An online portal for an event where the users can register themselves and can check the status and
		 news related to that event.
Team Member : 2
Technology Used : JSP, Servlets, Oracle 10g, CSS, Javascript.
Software :  Eclipse Kepler, Oracle 10g.

Project 2:
Task : Worked on the support and implementation on Claim Generation System. The system handles the
		 claims that are being raised and goes to higher authority for approval, once the approval is done 
           those claims are being marked as approved and removed if the claim is rejected then a refusal 
		 request goes to that person for reclaim.
				
Team Member : 3
Technology Used : MVC 3, JSP, JDBC, MySQL, CSS and Javascript.
Software :  :  Eclipse Kepler, MySQL.

IT EXPERTISE & TECHNOLOGIES

⇨ Programming Languages	-	C, Core Java, J2EE.
⇨ Web Technologies			-	Jsp, Servlets, HTML, Spring MVC with Hibernate.
⇨ Frameworks					-	MVC Framework, Struts 1.2, Struts 2.0, Spring.
⇨ IDEs								-	Eclipse(Luna), NetBeans, EditPlus.
⇨ Server							-	Apache Tomcat.
⇨ Operating Systems			-	Windows(XP,7, 8.1).
⇨ Databases						-	Oracle 10g, MySQL, Derby-10.10.2.0.

INTERNSHIP/TRAINING

Training Institute                               Technology                                             Duration
Hewlett Packard                    	              Core Java                                                10th June 2011 to 23th July 2011

Project Title : “Online Crime Reporting System”
Description: A web application that aims to make easy for the people to raise their F.I.R complaints using the portal which is being tracked by the higher officials.
Team Member : 3
Technology Used : Java Servlet and Jsp,
Software :  Eclipse Juno, Oracle 10g.


ACADEMIA

⇨ Bachelor of Technology (Computer Science and Engineering) from Integral University Lucknow in 2012 (secured 66.54%).
⇨ Class 12th from S.H.L.J.I.C.Kichhauchha Ambedkarnagar (UP Board) secured 64.20% in 2004.
⇨ Class 10th from S.H.L.J.I.C.Kichhauchha Ambedkarnagar (UP Board) secured 56.83% in 2002.


ACADEMIC PROJECT

PROJECT : “MULTI-STOREY PARKING MANAGEMENT”
Description : A multi-storey park is a building designed for vehicle parking and where there are a number of floors or levels on which parking takes place. It is essentially a stacked vehicle park. It provide lower building cost per parking slot, as they typically require less building volume and  less ground area than a conventional facility with the same capacity. It is suitable for large parking of several hundred vehicle spaces, such as public parking with hourly and monthly rates for large buildings.

Technology Used	:  Java Swing and AWT.
Team Member : 4
Tools		:  NetBeans IDE, MySQL Server.

EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

⇨ Medallion from Red Cross and St. John Ambulance Association.
⇨ Organized Technical Events at college level.
⇨ Member of Computer Society of India(C.S.I.).
⇨ Participated in workshop on Robotics conducted by Integral University Lucknow.

HOBBIES

⇨    Web Browsing and Listening music.

PERSONAL DETAILS

Date of Birth			:	15-July-1987.
Contact Address		:	#54 S.N, Hostel, Room no. 35, Roopena Agrahara, Hosur Road 560068, Bangalore.
Mobile					:	+91-7795183583
Languages known	:	English, Hindi, Urdu.
Location preference  :	 Bangalore.

Mrinal Kumar 
 
Having 1.8 years of experience in Java/J2EE, Struts, Spring, frameworks as a java developer,Experience with JAVA/J2EE(Servlet,JDBC,JSP)and Working in team development environment
 
 
• Current Designation: Associate Software Programmer
• Current Company: Blue Star InfoTech
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Delhi / NCR,Hyderabad
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 25 Jul 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 8 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 1111111111
 
• Email: mrinal1990@outlook.com Verified
• Address: Samastipur,Bihar, samastpur - 848133
 
• Key Skills: Struts,CoreJAVA,J2EE,Servlet,JSP,JDBC,JSTL,HTML,OOP's,Multithreading,Collection, Serialization,Reflection API, Maven,Log4J,Ant,Cvs,Tomcat.
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 1a41756f2c5da09e08Last Active: 12-Oct-14Last Modified: 2-Oct-14Report Resume
 



Mrinal Kumar						E-Mail-: mrinal1990@outlook.com
Mobile : +91-8892753353                                           	 

Objective                                             


       To achieve a challenging position in Software Development in a result oriented company, where acquired skills and education will be utilized towards continuous growth and advancement with challenging projects.      



Summary of Experience                                                  


• Having 1+ years of Experience in IT Industry in Developing Web Based and Enterprise Applications using   Java  and  J2EE Technologies. 
• Experience in Developing Applications using Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC.
• Experience in Developing Applications using Struts framwork.
• Experience in J2EE Design Patterns.

Organizational Experience 

• Working for Blue Star InfoTech Bangalore from  Dec 2012 to till date.

Academic Background                                                

• B.Tech (computer science & Engineering) from West Bengal University Of Technology  in 2013

Skill Set                                               

Operating System		: 	Windows 7/98/2000/XP
Languages/Scripts		: 	Java, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML
J2EE Technologies		: 	JDBC, Servlet, JSP.
Frameworks			:	Hibernate, Spring, Struts.
App/Web Servers		: 	Web logic,  Apache Tomcat 
RDBMS			: 	Oracle-10g, MySQL
IDE				:             Eclipse, My Eclipse









PROJECT PROFILE:
PROJECT#1          :  Health care system               			  (July 2013- till date)

Client Name          :  cala provincial hospital, South Africa
Team Size             :  8
Role                       :  Member Technical Staff
Environment         : Core Java, JSP, Struts, JDBC,  Eclipse

Description   :
       This project is a total solution for Hospital Administration, seamlessly integrates the activities and functions of various entities involved in a typical health care environment like Patients, Doctors, Tests and Scans, Treatments, Blood Bank. Provides facility to compensate doctors in multiple ways based upon number of visits, number of patients examined salary or revenue sharing with hospital on the billing of the patients examined and /or treated.

Responsibilities:
• Designing JSP’s as per the Requirement.
• Implementing Action Classes.
• Implementing Form Beans and their Validations.
• Implementing Custom Validations as per the Requirement.
• Implementing Page layouts using Tiles Framework.
• Writing DAO’s and their implementations With JDBC



Personal Detail
Nationality
Indian
Date of Birth                           
25th July 1990
Gender
Male
Languages Known  
English, Hindi,Bengali



Declaration:

 I hereby declare that all the information stated above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

Place : Bangalore.                                                                                     Mrinal Kumar
4


NARENDRA MOHAN PRASAD (6+ years of exp.)
 E-mail: narendra.mohan@yahoo.com	Mobile No: 9886910280

OBJECTIVE: Seeking position as Technical Lead/Team lead, to enhance my technical and team building capabilities, using my old experience and new challenges together.

Summary:
• Having 6 years and a month of experience in development using technologies like Java, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Web services and XML.
• Experience in Life Science domain.
• Experience in all the phases of software development lifecycle (SDLC) of a project.
• Experience in Agile Sprint methodology.
• Sound experience in technologies like Struts, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, XML.
• Hands-on experience in Java / J2EE Technologies & tools and design patterns.

Technical Skills:
 
Languages
Java (core Java, Multithreading, JDBC, Java Beans).
Entreprise components
 JSP, Servlet.
Application/Web Servers
Apache Tomcat, Weblogic 9.2, IBM Websphere
Tools and IDE
Eclipse, Intellij Idea, Ant, Maven, OpenSSO                            
Frameworks
Jakarta Struts, Eclipse link, Spring,
Databases
MS SQL Server, Oracle 10g
Web UI
Ext JS
Reporting
J Free Chart, Fusion Chart, FOP
Verticals
Life Sciences

ACHIEVMETS 
• Awarded an Xtra Mile award in 2011.
• Promoted as Tech Lead in Jan 2011.
• Promoted as Principal Software Engineer Jan 2009
• Awarded as Star Performer for Jan 2008.
• Promoted as Sr. Software Engineer at Jun 2007.

EXPERIENCE 
ARIS GLOBAL, Bangalore                                                                                 		Aug, 2006-Till Date
Position: Tech Lead
URL (www.arisglobal.com)
 
For more than 20 years, Aris Global has pioneered the advancement of drug safety, drug safety monitoring, pharmacovigilance, regulatory compliance, medical information and clinical trials management software.
Solutions are designed to help all life sciences organizations facilitate regulatory compliance, manage risk and improve operational efficiency.
Currently working on
To enhance the technologies capabilities for ARISg from JDBC connection to data source using Spring JDBC Template and DBCP for creating multiple database or data source support, we are upgrading system with the Spring IOC and struts action support. 
Worked on the following project, which are summaries as below:
1) ARIS (Adverse Reaction Information System):
ARISg is the world's leading pharmacovigilance and clinical safety system for good reason, with more than 300 life-science companies maintaining their critical safety data in ARISg worldwide. ARISg is the adverse event reporting software that provides all the functionality required to meet your regulatory obligations, from case entry to compliance tracking

It handles with adverse reaction information and generates the various reports which are in line with many drug regulatory authorities and handles reaction occurred during consumption of drug(s), and gives a detailed reports.
ARISg is the core component of an integrated pharmacovigilance and risk management strategy, enabling companies to monitor their products and provide early identification of product risks and safety trends.
ARISg helps speed up information delivery with the use of its configurable workflow components. Users can set up a system that meets their business process and SOP requirements easily and more efficiently by streamlining case processing and automating the routing of cases as defined in the workflow rules.
agOnDemand is the hosted, managed offering that provides all the features and functionality ofARISg. Unlike other hosted systems that are developed and maintained by third-parties, agOnDemand upgrades are performed by Aris Global, which gives customers the peace of mind that they have a "powered by" solution that reflects the innovative technology of the world's most trusted solution for pharmacovigilance and drug safety

Client:  Multiple clients (Takeda, Roche, Health Canada, GE, Baxter, etc.)
Environment:  Agile Sprint methodology, Java 5.0, Servlet, Struts, Web services, XML, JFree Chart, XSLT FOP, under Windows environment

There are so many features or modules in the product; I’ve worked on these following modules:
a) SSO (Single Sign On) support: implemented SSO support using Security Assertion Mark-up Language (SAML) version 2.0 for the product to the company common login page with federated identity server.
b) Homepage module: a framework which is customizable and gives opportunity to administrators and users to customize their homepage, with the set of available interactive views. My role was to develop and design the homepage.
c) Interactive Views: a XML based flow, which is converted into the dynamic reports and drilldowns to displays into the homepage and pluggable to any of the ARISg product component. My role was to develop and design the Interactive Views (iView).
d) Distribution list: a case distribution module, which distributes the case on completion of some activity, defined by the administrator module. My role was to allow data changes of the distribution list outside of the workflow if user is owner of the unit, and legacy case changes.
e) Literature Library Record: I’ve worked on audit trail for the literation library record, and some bug fixes.
f) DMO Module: Document Management module is used for the document attachment to the case and used with literature module. I’ve worked on the upgrade in technological enhancement. 
g) agEncoder integration: I’ve worked on the agEncoder integration, sending coding request for drug and reaction terms, and request for labelling information, and receive coding and labelling information from the agEncoder and code the respective terms. Worked on a report to generate coded terms into PDF format using XSLT Transformation.
h) Other: worked on some issue fixes and some performance related issues.

2) agEncoder (Central Coding System)
Pharmaceutical companies that develop new drugs are required to produce reports that document the effects of the drug. However, the data used to produce these reports, including information on health conditions and medications, can be hard to analyse because the terminology is inconsistent. Even when a company uses a dictionary of appropriate terms provided by an organization such as the World Health Organization, MSSO, data collected during the study may be inconsistent with its terminology.
agEncoder is a coding and dictionary management system where dictionaries are maintained/loaded at a central location and verbatim terms received from various systems are coded. agEncoder refers to an item of data initially entered or loaded into the system, reaction, drug or health condition information, as a verbatim term (VT). agEncoder maps verbatim terms to dictionary terms in a process called classification. It automatically classifies verbatim terms that directly match a dictionary term, and enables user to classify variant or misspelled terms manually using agEncoder Coding Browser. agEncoder leverages auto-learning capability of the system so that future occurrences of the same verbatim term are automatically classified the same way as was done earlier. agEncoder provides a UI approach to perform impact analysis of MedDRA and Drug Dictionary upgrades and recoding of cases.

Client:  Multiple clients (Takeda, Baxter, Orion, Intermune)
Environment:  Agile Sprint methodology, Java 5.0, Servlet, Struts, Web services, XML, JFree Chart, XSLT FOP, under Windows environment

Following modules I’ve worked on:
a) Background process: developed a background process which will detect the new terms, which is sent for coding and do the coding process.
b) Source system Management: designed and developed a maintenance system for source system information management system.
c) Audit trail reports: developed a reporting system for audit trail, using XSLT transformation and xml configuration for reports. 

BSW Software Solution, Bangalore                                                                                 Sep, 2005 - Aug, 2006
Position: Software Engineer
URL (www.bsw-soft.com)
Project Details:
 
IdeanaTao (Ten You)						[Feb 2006 – Aug 2006]
It is an online auction site for real and virtual items. The Idea of the commodity is to utilizing auction as the place of marketing production cost, selling price, investigates quantity, furthermore production enterprise, it is the sight which also decides the customer with simultaneous advance. It is a web based project where three types of users, one who has the idea, second who can provide the requested services for the idea and third who is the buyer of the item exhibited. Buyer can bid for the items which are existing or the virtual item (The item which is needed to be manufactured). Manufacturer can place a quotation for the request made online. Both bidder and the manufacturer can communicate with each other and the communicated details are saved for further reference. 
Environment:   Java, Servlet, Struts, JFree Chart, under Windows environment
   Kaishen Shukayo System						[Nov 2005 – Feb 2006]
This system is part of the ICC business system; it has four main modules construction information common system, the construction information system, the power failure information system, and the line debt system (Kaishen Shukayo). Basically all this system is related to telecommunication related works. In Kaishen Shukayo System, It is related to line (telecom) maintenance system. Through this system we can create new line information, modify existing and delete existing. Based on status we can view the current status of existing line. 
Environment:   Java, Servlet,  XML, under Windows environment

MicroEye Dicom Viewer			 			[Sep 2005 – Nov 2005]
MICROEYE is web based DICOM image viewing system. The Digital imaging and Communication in Medicine (DICOM) standard was created by the National Electrical Manufactures Association (NEMA) to aid the distribution and viewing of medical images, such as CT scans, MRIs, and ultrasounds. Part 10 of the standard describes a file format for the distribution of images. The MICROEYE maintains DICOM images and their accessibility of the users. Based on the roles of the each user is granted access to particular subset of resources and functionalities of the viewer. MICROEYE is intended to use by Radiologist and Doctors for analysing a patient’s scan results. Basically MICROEYE consists of two modules. The first module deals with authentication of the users and provides a full-featured search screen, which searches the DICOM file system based on a wide range of criterions. The second module deals with image processing and Motion image display of a multi-framed DICOM image. Other features are managing the DICOM image in terms of study, series, adding annotations, measurement tools, and other image processing functions like Zoom, Pan, interactive Magnification, exporting of JPEG, and importing from many popular image formats. etc.
Environment:   Java, JSP, Servlet, Applet, XML, under Windows environment

ACADEMICS
• Master in Computer Applications (MCA)   (2002–2004) from IGNOU, New Delhi 
• Bachelor in Computer Applications (BCA)   (1999-2001) from IGNOU, New Delhi

PERSONAL DETAILS	
      Father’s Name	: Mr Mahendra Prasad
D. O. B.		: 15-01-1980
Sex		: Male
Marital Status	: Married
Nationality	: Indian
Passport No	: F8340012 (Valid up to 2016)
      Address		: 3801/1, B-G4, Sri Nidhi Enclave,
  Gottegere, Narayan Reddy Layout,
         Kammanahalli Main Road (Nobo Nagar),
         Near Bannerghatta Main Road,
         Bangalore- 560076.
NAVEEN CH 
 
2+ years of Experience in Java/J2ee, Servlets, Jsp ,Hibernate, Struts, Jquery HTML and knowledge on Spring.
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: Sahitya Technologies PVT LTD
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai,Hyderabad
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 27 May 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 5 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.85 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9620582542Verified
 
• Email: naveencoding@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Vijayawada, Mukkapadu - 521311
 
• Key Skills: Core Java, Jdbc, Servlets, Jsp, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery and HTML
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 09224162281eb7b166Last Active: 15-Oct-14Last Modified: 25-Sep-14

                                                   
                                                                                                                  Email:naveencoding@gmail.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Naveen Ch                                                                             Mobile:+91-9620582542


Objective

To build a career and reach higher level in a professional organization that will enhance my knowledge, skills and capabilities leading to mutual growth.

Professional Summary 
         2.3 Years of experience In IT industry as software Engineer.
➢ Good working experience on Java platform.
➢ Good knowledge with UI technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
➢ Extensively worked with Development tools like My Eclipse, My Eclipse and Net Beans.
➢ Proficient with Core JAVA, JDBC, Servlets, JSP with Tomcat Server 
➢ Experience in MS Sql and Oracle database.
➢ Experience in identify and apply typical Core and J2EE design patterns such as Singleton, DTO, DAO using struts with Hibernate.
➢ Experience in popular open source technologies and frameworks like Struts1.3.x and Hibernate.
➢ Experience in development of multi-tier applications using Struts.
➢ Excellent research, problem solving and solution development skills.
➢ Always eager to learn and share ideas towards new technologies, Good Communication Skills.

Education
Degree
University
Year of passed out

B.Tech(Computer & Science)

JNT.University,Hyderabad,India

June,2010

Experience:

Organization

Designation
Duration
Sahitya Technologies Pvt Ltd
Systems Engineer
April 2012 to till date

Technical Skills
Operating Systems
Windows 2000/XP and Windows 7
Languages
Java/J2EE
Server side Technologies
JDBC, Servlets, JSP
Web Technologies
HTML, JavaScript, JQuery
Frameworks
Struts 1.x and Hibernate 3.x
ORM Tools
Hibernate 3.x
Databases
Oracle and My SQL 
Servers
Apache Tomcat
IDE
Eclipse, NetBeans



PROJECT # 1
First Leap Job Portal (FLJP)

Client
Sunil Chandra
Team size
4
Role
Developer 
Technologies
Java, J2EE
Server
Tomcat 7.0.3
RDBMS
MS SQL server


Project Description:  

          First Leap (FLJP) is a job portal website. In this website student, colleges and companies can register and companies post jobs, students can apply those jobs and colleges acts as bridge between students and companies.
The following are the modules for the FLJP:
➢ Admin
➢ Company
➢ Student
➢ College
• Admin: - Admin is the super user; he has access to Activate, Update, and manages the colleges and companies, and students details.
• Company: Company can post jobs and search for students in advanced search.
• College:  College acts as bridge between students and companies.
• Student: Student can apply jobs and get the information of interviews and walk in via emails and sms.  

  Responsibilities:
  
• Developed Dao classes as per the module.
• Involved in enhancement of the project, developed the functionalities by Servlets and JSP’s. 
• Involved in development of front –end screens using JSP’s.
• Fix the interface issue with external systems.
• Developed the MS SQL server procedures to update the large data based on client requirement.


PROJECT # 2
NickVuj
Client
Ravi & Ravi men’s wear
Team size
5
Role
Developer 
Technologies
Java, J2EE, Struts1.x and Hibernate
Server
My SQL


Project Description:  
       Male consumers make more online purchases and spend more money online than females; they are equally or more likely to shop online in the future, and are equally or more favorable of online shopping. This project is easy for Men to shop.
      
  Responsibilities:
  
• Used model view Controller Architecture (MVC) Architecture Model.
• Involved in enhancement of the project, developed the functionalities by Struts1.X 
• Written DAO’s and their implementations With Hibernate.
• Involved in development of front –end screens using JSP’s.
• Involved in writing the procedures in My Sql.


Personal Details:

Father’s Name         : Ch. Nagaraju
DOB                        : 27-05-1989
Address                   : Mukkapadu,
                                 Unguturu (M.D),
                                 Krishna (D.T),
                                 AndhraPradesh-521311.

												


      (NAVEEN .CH)

Neelmani 
 
Web developer with 2 year 5months Experience
 
 
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: Web / Graphic Design / Visualiser
• Role: Web Designer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 05 Aug 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 6 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 3.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech [computer Science]
• Phone: 8088387486 Duplicate Number
 
• Email: neelmani79@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Ramdev Sadan,Pankhatoli, Muzaffarpur, BIHAR - 842002
 
• Key Skills: PHP,WORDPRESS,CODEIGNITER,HTML,CSS,BOOTSTRAP,JAVASCRIPT,AJAX,XML,JSON,,Web Services, CORE JAVA,C,C++
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 713a8adf44ded1b041Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 3-Oct-14

	CURRICULUM VIATE	     

Neelmani
(May2014 to Sept2014)
Plaqsa Limited
Bangalore

Previous Employer:
(Aug2012 to June2014)
Global Drishti
 (March2012 to June2012)
Max Vision Solution Pvt Ltd..


B.Tech

Computer Science
IETE,16/1-2,
Institutional area,
Phankha Road,Janak puri,
New Delh-110058

Current Address

1. Residential:
#50, 8th cross,Maruti Nagar,
Madiwala,
Bangalore-560029,
Mobile: +91-8088387486

2. Permanent:
s/o Ram Kumar
Pankhatoli,
Muzaffarpur-842002(Bihar)
Mobile- +91-7488197403

E-Mail

neelmani79@gmail.com


Personal Data
Date of Birth: 05 august,1989
Sex: Male
Nationality: Indian
Marital Status: Single





Hobbies
• Surfing Internet
• Interact With People.


Strengths
• Vision Innovation & Initiation
• Optimistic.
• Goal & Efficiency oriented.
• Hard Working.
• Strong Determination.

Areas of Improvement
• Trying to control  my emotions



















(NEELMANI)

Date: 

Place:
Position
Web Developer 

Area of Specialization:

• Website Development Using PHP, CodeIgniter, WORDPRESS, HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON,XML

Professional Experience: 

• 2 year    6months

Major Assignments Handled:

Project Description
Responsibilities
Allocation Software For Website Company
• Design & Develop complete software  in PHP using OOP’s concept, MySQL JQUERY & CSS 
Website Designing CMS
• Design & Develop Complete application using PHP,    JQUERY, MYSQL & CSS 
• Develop Complete Admin panel
Online Order Website
www.nalestar.co.uk
• Design & Develop Complete application using PHP,    JQUERY, MYSQL & CSS 
• Develop Complete Admin panel
Payment Gateway
http://webtechmedia.in/ccard
• Add Paypal Payment Gateway 
To the website.
Jewelry  Website
http://sogaljewelers.co.in/
• Design & Develop Full website using PHP,JQUERY,MYSQL & CSS 
• Develop Complete Admin panel
Priest Booking Website
http://manokamna.in
• Design & Develop Full website using PHP,JQUERY,MYSQL & CSS 
• Develop Complete Admin panel
Tutor Website
http://www.myhometutor.in/
• Design and Develop full Website using Codeigniter  
• Develop  Complete Admin panel
Property Website
http://apexmulti.com/
• Design and Develop full Website using PHP,JQUERY, MYSQL & CSS
• Develop  Complete Admin panel
Hotel Website
http://bhagirathivihar.com/ 
• Design and Develop full Website using PHP,JQUERY, MYSQL & CSS
• Develop  Complete Admin panel
Property Website
http://baserarealtors.com/
• Design and Develop full Website using PHP,JQUERY & CSS
Technical skills:	

• Certification in PHP from Ducat
• Certification in HTML from NIIT
• Certification in Core Java from NIIT
• WordPress
• Joomla
• JavaScript
• Payment Gateway
• JQuery
• JSP
• Servlet
• Hibernate
• Struts
• JSF
• Elementary Idea of C,C++
• Troubleshooting in Computers.
 
Platforms:   WINDOWS 98, 2000, XP, Vista, 7. 


Academic Qualifications:

• High School from North Point Children School (Muzaffarpur) ICSE Board
• Intermediate from North Point Children School (Muzaffarpur) ICSE Board
• B.E. in (Computer Science) from IETE, New Delhi.
(Affiliated to UGC).     


Seminars and Projects undertaken 

Seminar: Seminar on “CAPTCHA” as part of my B.E.  curriculum. 

Projects: Project on “Hotel Website”as part of my B.E. curriculum

Key Skills

1.   Good Communicational & interpersonal skills.
2.   Can work effectively in team, as well as individually.
3.   Can handle pressure & very energetic.
4.   Ambitious and innovative.


I hereby declare that all the information above is true to the best of my knowledge.

Nishant Kumar 
 
Curriculum Vitae
 
 
• Current Designation: Contract Engineer
• Current Company: Bharat Electronics Limited
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Anywhere in North India,Anywhere in South India,Pune
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 25 May 1993 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 1 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.05 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: Diploma [Computers]
• Phone: 9738778454Verified
 
• Email: nishant.tiwari91@hotmail.com Verified
• Address: At+Po=Tikapatti 
Dist=Purnea(Bihar), purnea - 854101
 
• Key Skills: Java(Servlet,jsp,Hibernate,Struts)
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 677550b03390ba3a42Last Active: 25-Sep-14Last Modified: 25-Sep-14

Name: Nishant Kumar			           Email: nishant.tiwari91@gmail.com		
#1164, sanjay niwas, 13th main,8th cross,          Mobile: 9738778454
 Btm layout ,Banglore-29                                        

SUMMARY: 
Looking for the opportunity to contribute at the best level of a technology where I can leverage my strong analytical, technical, communication and collaboration abilities to help organizations add business value through the use of technology.
BRIEF OVERVIEW:
➢ Working as Contractat engineer at Bharat Electronics Limited(A Navratna company, A Govt. of India Enterprise(Under The Ministry of Defence )).
➢ Excellent knowledge of Java(Core java , Servlet , Jsp , Hibernate , Struts).
➢ 2 Years of Work Experience in IT Industry.
➢ Hand on experience in MySQL database.
➢ Works on Linux(Cent Os & Red hat)
➢ Quick learning skills and flexible.
EXPERIENCE:
Industry:         	   Bharat Electronics Limited, Bangalore
Designation:               Contract Engineer
From:                          Aug 2012
To:                             Till Now
SKILL PROFILE:
Languages
Java(Core java,Servlet,Jsp,Hibernet).


Operating Systems
 Linux /Windows XP/Vista/7
Databases
MYSQL,Oracle
Interfaces
Sqlyog
Packages
Microsoft Office,Adobe Reader
ACADEMICS:
➢ Diploma From SHEED BHAGAT SINGH COLLEGE OF ENGG AND TECHNOLOGY,FEROZEPUR(PUNJAB), IN JUNE 2012,Division: First Class (70%).
➢ Matric Examination from HIGH SCHOOL, TIKAPATTI Affiliated to BIHAR Board. Division: First Class (81%)
PROFESSIONAL PROJECT:
Project – Title
National Population Register(NPR40)
Description


It’s a govt. level all India project. Under this project, each and every person has to enroll under NPR by giving their demographic and biometric details and after that a unique card is generated consisting of all the records well known as smart card.	
Advantages
Through this smart card, we can know everything about a resident i.e. bank details, PAN card details, Driving license information, ration card details, their identity & biometrics, etc.
Role / Responsibility
Application Developer


Contributions

As a Team Member, my roles are as follows:
• Gives presentation on progress report of ongoing project.
• Build up Application in java.
• Testing The Application.
Location
Bharat Electronics Limited, Bangalore
Database
 MYSQL
 PERSONAL PROFILE:	
Date of Birth
25th MAY 1993
Father's Name                         
Mr. T.Trivedi
Mother's Name
Smt. Sushila Devi
Sex
Male
Nationality
Indian
Marital Status
Single
Languages Known
Hindi and  English
Present Address
Bangalore


I declare that the details furnished above are true to best of my knowledge.
Date:
Place:  Bangalore								Nishant Kumar
PRAMOD 
 
Java 2+ years of Experience working on CoreJava, Servlets, Jsp, Jdbc, SQL, Struts1.1, Hibernate, Spring IOC, HTML
 
 
• Current Designation: SOFTWARE ENGINEER
• Current Company: JSM TECHNOLOGIES PVT LTD
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 28 Jul 1986 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Electronics/Telecommunication]
• Phone: 9538554925Verified
 
• Email: pramodsbmenasigi@gmail.com Verified
• Address: 111 1 MAIN HOYSALA NAGAR 
BENGALURU, Bengaluru - 560016
 
• Key Skills: Core Java, Servlets, Jsp, Struts 1.1, JDBC, SQL, Hibernate, Spring Ioc, Html,
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 201f19d61948c93026Last Active: 13-Oct-14Last Modified: 13-Oct-14

PRAMOD						Mobile: +91  9538554925
                                                                                   	E-mail : pramodsbmenasigi@gmail.com	

Objective:
Seeking a challenging Position in the area of Software Developing in a Professional Organization, where my skills and my Educational background can add value to the growth of the organization and allow development of my skills to organization potential in the field of Developing.
Career summary:
• 2 years of experience in developing Web Based Software Applications using Java /J2EE technologies
• Good working exposure in Web based Application Development based on J2EE platform using Java, JSP, Servlets , Hibernate, Oracle11g.
• Good Knowledge in using Open Source frameworks.
• Strong technical skills & good exposure to JAVA/J2EE.
•  Hands on experience in developing enterprise applications using Design patterns.
•  Ability to learn new concepts and to adapt to new environments.
• Having good knowledge of Testing concepts.
• Having good communications and inter-personal skills.

Professional Education:
• MTech(ECE) from JSSATE under VTU IN 2012 , Bengaluru .
• B.E (ECE) from Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bangalore from Visveswaraiah Technological University 2009.
• PUC from SDM  P.U.College, Dharwad from Pre-University Board 2004.
• SSLC from Loyola High School , Gadag from Karnataka Secondary Board 2002.
  
Professional Experience:
• Currently Working with JSM Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru  as a Software
Engineer from  JAN 2012 To – Present





Technical Skills:
Primary Skills
Programming in Java, J2EE
Operating Systems 
Windows 2000/XP,Ubuntu
Languages 
 Java 5
Client / Server Technologies
J2EE, Servlets 2.5 , JSP  2.1
ORM
Spring JDBC,Hibernate 3.3
Frameworks
Struts , Spring
Databases
Oracle 10g ,Oracle9i
Application Servers 
Tomcat 7.0 
Development Tools
Eclipse 3.4,EditPlus 3.0
Testing Tools
Selenium
Presentation Languages
Html , Jsp,Struts Custom Tags,CSS

Project s Undertaken
Project 1:
Project name: OpenTreatment
Technology: Struts, Hibernate , Jsp, Servlets,JavaScript, Oracle , Eclipse, WebLogic application Server  (Oracle corp. Application Developer).	
Summary: Is a web based user interface that enables interactive access to information about patient’s history like EHR, EMR and doctors details, and provider details and online appointments. The goal of this project to develop an Open Treatment site that provides a comprehensive view of patient treatment history and all about doctors and hospitals. The main aim is the communication between patient and hospital. This project deals with the activities of patient services and support services. Patient services play major role that include selecting the provider and doctors and hospital as department wise. 
Roles & Responsibilities:
• Responsible for Coding of various applications of Moderator Module and Provider Module including Registration forms of Patients, Staff, and Provides etc.
• Developing various objects for processing the data request from the user and retrieving the records from the Database.
• Developing Struts Action Forms, Action classes, and DAO classes and performed action mapping using Struts.
• Used Hibernate as Data Layer.
• Involved in developing the Jsp pages.
• Converted well-designed HTML pages to JSP pages by adding dynamic content.

Project 2:
Project name:  Indu Fortune Villa Tracker
Technology: JSP, Servlets, HTML, JDBC, Mysql5, Apache tomcat  and XP.
Summary:Indu Fortune Villa Tracker is the in-house application for Indu Fortune Projects for tracking of flats booking and rentals. In this application tenant can search for the flats for rent, and tenant can contact with the owner of the flat for the rent. In application owner post his/her flats details for the rent. Tenants see these details and contact with the owner. Admin keep track of all the owners of the villa. In this project we have seven modules; modules are Administrator Module, Flats and Amenities Module, Employee Management Module, Owners Module, Search and Reports Module, Tenants Module, E-Adds Module.
Roles & Responsibilities:
• Experience in writing SQL statements using JDBC to connect to database.
• Developed User interfaces using JSP/HTML and implemented new functionalities as a part of enhancements. Designed and implemented front end components also involved in front-end validations using JAVA Script.
• Developed server-side code using Servlets, which gets the request and processes the response
• Developed and Result output to be displayed on the web page.
• Deployed Server-side components(JSP)

Project 3
Project name: Employee Performance System                                
Technology: Struts, Jsp , Servlets , JavaScript, Mysq,  Eclipse.
Summary: This application is meant for the Employee Appraisal Process of Rightpath employees. This application is used to maintain the track record of the employee and employee performance. In this application we maintain employee education details and training and all history of the employee. We can keep track of year wise performance of the employee. In application we have 4 modules, these modules are employee module, Manager and One over One Manager module, Administration modules, Search module.
Roles & Responsibilities:
• Involved in developing the Action Classes, Action Forms, and Dao Classes. Utility Classes.
• Developed User interface using JSP/HTML and implementing new functionalities as a part of enhancement.
• Designed and implemented front end components also involved in front-end validations using JavaScript.
• Developed and Result output to be displayed on the web pages.
       		
DECLARATION
I hereby declare that the details furnished above are true to the best of my knowledge.

Place: Bangalore                                                                                                Pramodkumar Menasigi               
Date:  									     
       


putti.Bhuvanchnadra rao 
 
java developer in 2 years of experience
 
 
• Current Designation: Java Developer
• Current Company: Enterfuse Software solutions
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Anywhere in North India
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 14 Dec 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.20 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9441761811Verified
 
• Email: puttibhuvan@gmail.com Verified
• Address: s/o:putti.thirupati rao
guntur(dist),
thullur(m.d),
pedaparimi(post)., guntur - 522206
 
• Key Skills: c,c++,java,html,xml,web designing.
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 6cc4ff9f7f5625dc03Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 16-Oct-14

Mr Bhuvanchandra                                                           ph no #:91-9441761811 
                                                                                                   Email:  Puttibhuvan@gmail.com
Professional Summary
I have around 2 years of experience in IT industry. Java J2EE Professional with excellent analytical and problem solving skills. I have experience in Java, Servlets,  JSP and JDBC. 

Education
Degree	
University / College
B.Tech (2008 To 2012)
J.N.T University / Eswar college of engineering
Narasaraopet, A.P.   (60%)
Intermediate 

Board of Intermediate (2006-2008) (72%)
 S.S.C	

S.S.C Board (2005-2006) (65%)
Experience
Organization
Designation
Duration
Entrefuse software solutions
Software Engineer
11/2011 –Till the date 
Technical Skills
OPERATING SYSTEMS
Window 2000
LANGUAGES
Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.3, Hibernate3.0
DATABASES
Oracle 10g
CASE TOOLS
TOAD, EditPlus
WEB RELATED
Apache Tomcat6.0 ,websphere 6.0
TOOLS & UTILITIES
Eclipse IDE ,WSAD 5.0
DOMAIN KNOWLEDGE
AUTOMOTIVE

Projects profile

2. 
Project Name : Nissan Vehicle Ordering System(NIVOS)
Client
Nissan Motors, UK
Role
Team Member
Organization
Entrefuse software solutions
Duration
8 months
Team Size
5
Environment
(with skill versions)
Software

Languages:servlets,jsp,xml
Database : Oracle 10g
Servers : WebSphere 5.0
Tools : wsad 5.1,toad 8.0
O/s : Windows xp
Project Description 
Vehicle Ordering System is a useful application which would give stock details to the super dealer, admin dealer and customer. This project contains six modules they are 
Browse Stock, Vehicle Ordering and Order Placement, Browse Pipeline, Dealer Maintenance, Record Achievement and Retail Capture.
By using this project a super dealer can add a sub dealer or he can delete the sub dealer, it provides various mechanisms to access the stock and order for vehicle.
Record Achievement is used to record the gathered information. By this a dealer or customer can enquire the data, or he can browse the data or he can modify the record details. It’s allows us two ways of access i. e, by giving achievement code and dealer code for accessing entire stock details pertaining to a particular dealer. By giving either order number or vehicle identification number (VIN) he can directly access the particular record.
Contribution
As a team member, was responsible for 
• Involved in coding
• Involved in development of user interface by using jsp’s
• Involved in development of Business classes
• Involved in development of DAO classes
• Involved in Unit Testing 
• Involved in bug fixing
1. 
Project Name : Simulation Management System(SMS)
Client
Nissan Motors, UK
Role
Team Member
Organization
Entrefuse software solutions
Duration
5 months
Team Size
5
Environment
(with skill versions)
Software

Languages: jsp,servlets
Database : Oracle 10g
Servers : WebSphere 5.0
Tools : wsad 5.1, Toad 8.0
O/s : Windows xp
Project Description 
The BTIC Project is a Web Based Project, which Helps Nissan Workers in Simulating the Orders they would be receiving from their dealers and Parts Dealers Company, so that they can plan their Production and it helps in keeping track of the Inventory they have, It Simulates how much of demand can be met in the Projected Period of Time, and where all the Production should be Increased.
Contribution
As a team member, was responsible for 
• Involved in coding
• Involved in development of user interface by using jsp’s
• Involved in development of Business classes
• Involved in development of DAO classes
• Involved in Unit Testing
• Bug fixing

 
Software Developer with 2.5 yrs Experience
 
 
• Current Designation: java Developer
• Current Company: Sonata software ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Hyderabad,Pune
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 08 Jun 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 5 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 3.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: MBA/PGDM [Finance]
• Phone: 9686527394Verified
 
• Email: venkatnagendra2020@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Banaganapalli,
Kurnool(dist),
Andhra Pradesh., kurnool - 518124
 
• Key Skills: java j2ee struts xml, java j2ee struts, java j2ee spring hibernate, java jsp servlets, Development and JAVA, J2Servlets, EEJSP, JSTL JDBC Struts Spring Spring MVC Net Beans JavaScript XML SQL, PL/SQL.
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 3163f3fd518044f875Last Active: 5-Oct-14Last Modified: 30-Sep-14
CURRICULAM VITAE

P Venkata Nagendra
                                                                   E-mail: venkatnagendra2020@gmail.com
                                                                               Mobile: +91-9686527394


CAREER OBJECTIVE	
       
       To obtain a challenging position where my creativity and skills can be utilized and I get an opportunity for continuous learning and improvement in my skills, domain as well as other related fields.
       
Experience Summary:	

➢ More than two years of experience in Development and JAVA, J2EE and related applications as Software Development in IT industry.
➢ Expertise in developing Applications using Servlets, JSP, JSTL and JDBC.
➢ Strong experience in developing application development using Struts and Spring application frameworks and also Expertise in Spring MVC framework.
➢ Proficient in various IDEs including Eclipse, My Eclipse and Net Beans.
➢ Hands on experience using application servers including Apache Server, Web logic.
➢ Experienced in Presentation Tier development using JSP, Java Standard Tag Library (JSTL), Custom Tags.
➢ Strong experience in developing customized light weight persistence classes and Hibernate ORM framework.
➢ Efficient in using scripting languages JavaScript for client side validation.
➢ Good Knowledge in XML.
➢ Database programming skills in SQL, PL/SQL.

Work Experience:
Working as a Software Engineer in Sonata Software Limited, Bangalore from March 2012 to till date.


Academic Profile:	 
                           
                        
          Master of Business Administration from Rayalaseema University.





Technical Skills:	


SKILL
EXPERIENCED
AWARENESS
Programming Languages
Java,J2SE,J2EE(JDBC,Servlets,JSP,JSTL)
C,C++
Operating Systems
Windows XP,Windows 7
Linux
Web Technologies
Html, Java Script,XML,Ajax,CSS

DataBase
Oracle,MySQL

Softwares


JSE Technologies
JNDI, JDBC
RMI
JEE Technologies
Servlets, JSP, JMS
EJB
Frame  Works
Struts, Spring
JSF
ORM Tools
Hibernate

Servers
Tomcat, Weblogic, Glassfish
Jboss
SOA
JAX WS, Restful

IDES
Net Beans, My Eclipse, Eclipse
RAD
Tools
Log4J, Ant, Maven, Junit, Svn, 
Jasper reports, ire ports


Project Profile:	

Project #1:
Title			:     Online Banking
Client			:     Central Bank, U.S.A
Technology 	:    Core Java, Struts, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, SiteMesh, JavaScript.
Tools                       :     Jasper Reports, Log4j, Ant, CVS, My Eclipse, WebLogic and Oracle
Duration                  :     Oct 2013 – till date

Description:
                 It is an Internet Banking Application. It provides very useful features to the bank customers who have registered for Internet banking facility. It is a registration facility provided by the bank. Once the customers register for online banking facility, they will be provided with a user id and a password to carry out the online transactions in a secure manner and Change the Internet Banking Password. Check the balance online. Updating the customer contact information like address, phone number and email. Online transfer of funds to other accounts of same bank or other bank. Online cheque book order facility. 
Roles & Responsibilities:
➢ Involved in writing Struts Action Classes and Implemented Page Layouts using SiteMesh Framework.
➢ Involved in writing Custom Validation Using Struts and Client Side Validation using Java Script.
➢ Injected Spring beans into Struts Action Classes.
➢ Developed several JSP pages and Developed Custom Reports Using Jasper Reports.
➢ Involved in writing Hibernate Mapping Configurations and Hibernate Transaction Management.
➢   Generating Views Velocity and EXCEL Spreadsheets Using Spring Framework.
➢ Developed Exception Handling using Java and Struts.

Project #2:
Title			 :  Hospi Care	
Client			 :  Ross Medicaid group, Denver, U.S.A.
Technology	 :  Core Java, Struts, JSP, Hibernate, JavaScript, Oracle 
Tools                        :  Log4j, Ant, CVS, Jasper Reports,  My Eclipse and  Apache Server      
Duration                  :   December 2012-September 2013


Description:
                HospiCare is Hospital administration Software. This project creating software for use in medical practices, where a patient could register himself takes tests and be billed. The doctor would be able to see his schedule, and enter the patient medical records online. He could also assign tests, and see the results later. The patient would be billed according to the service provided to him. This project involved managing the day-to-day tasks for a legal practice.
Roles & Responsibilities:
➢ Involved in writing Struts Action Classes and Layout Management using Tiles Framework.
➢ Developed several JSP pages.
➢ Involved in writing Hibernate Mapping Configurations.
➢ Interconnectivity of Database through Hibernate.
➢ Developed Custom Validation Using Struts Framework.
➢ Involved in writing Client Side Validations using JavaScript.
➢ Developed Custom Reports Using Jasper Reports.



Project #3:
Title			 :  Product Repository
Client			 :  5/3 Bank, USA
Technology 	 :  Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript and Oracle 
Tools                        :  Log4j, Eclipse, Apache Server  and Windows XP
Duration                   :  April 2012-November 2013

Description:
                The main objective of this project is to add various functionalities into the system for providing various services to the client. Product Repository will have the ability to add new Product and Product Information, and also have an ability to add new category and category details. Product Repository will provide a service which can be utilized by Fifth Third applications or process or channels to fetch the product information. Service will provide the complete product information based on product code, product name and product category. I involved in end-to-end flow.

Roles & Responsibilities:
➢ Involved in developed several JSP pages.
➢ Involved in developed Custom JSP tags.
➢ Involved in writing Servlets.
➢ Developed front end graphical user interface using Html.
➢    Developed DAO classes for interact with databases.
➢ Written Jdbc components. 
➢ Involved in writing Client Side Validations using JavaScript.







 
BE in Information Science and i have completed Core java and J2ee courses.currently working for Collaboration Technology with 6 months of experience as Software Developer
 
 
• Current Designation: SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
• Current Company: COLLABORATION TECHNOLOGY
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai,Delhi
• Functional Area: IT Software - Other
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 10 Jun 1987 / Female
• Marital Status: Married
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 6 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.20 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9686836864Verified
 
• Email: raghu_dixith@yahoo.com Verified ,
raghavenikrm@gmail.com
• Address: #91,Sri Ram Nagar,geleyara balaga
bangalore
MANDYA DIS, Bangalore - 560080
 
• Key Skills: Core Java and J2EE,Struts,HTML,Hibernate,JSP.
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 16ee1267751c1e5f40Last Active: 1-Oct-14Last Modified: 21-Sep-14Report Resume
 

RAGHAVENI KRM						Phone: 9686836864
							          Email:raghavenikrm@gmail.com

Professional Summary:
• 6 Months of experience in Java Technologies
• Excellent Java development skills using J2EE, J2SE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Applets.
• Having hands on experience in handling Use Cases, Functional Specification, Knowledge Transfers and Business Analysis.
• Extensive Object Oriented Development OOP/OOD experience.
• Good working knowledge on Application development and maintenance life cycle process.

Professional Experience:

• worked as a Software Engineer in Collaboration Technologies, Bangalore from Sep 2013 to Feb 2014 . 

Scholastic Profile:

• B.E in ISE from VTU in 2012 with an aggregate of 72%.
• Diploma in CSE from Department Technical Education board in 2008 with an aggregate of 64%
• JOC in Horticulture from State Council of Vocational  education board in 2005 with an aggregate of 84%
• 10th standard from Secondary education Board in 2003 with an aggregate of 55%

Achievements:

• I achieved certification on Java platform.
• Certified as a Core java and J2ee from Inventech Software Soloution pvt Ltd


 
Technical Expertise:
Operating System		:  Windows 2000/2003/XP, Linux
Primary Skills			:  Java,J2EE,JSP,HTML,Structs.
Languages				:  C,C++,Core Java and J2ee,Structs,HTML.
Scripting Languages		:  JavaScript, Java Servlets, JSP
Web Servers   			:  Web logic, Apache Tomcat (6.0).


Experience Summary:
 I am associated with Collaboration Technology as a Software Developer since Sep 2013 to Feb 2014.




Project #1: 
Client 	: Hospital Management System
Environment	: Software Programmer
Role	: Software Developer  
Duration 	: Feb 2013 to till date.

We have developed a System to Hospital Management System. In this system Office admin, Reception Service and customers are the main roles. 

Roles & Responsibilities:
➢ I achieved working experience of writing Database stored procedures and triggers
➢ I understood the Hospital Management System Domain knowledge. 


Personal Profile:
         
         
      
      Father  Name    		:   Rajegowda  K.H
 	
Mother  Name             	:   Manjula Raj

Spouse Name                          :   Narasimha Murthy S

Address			:   #205/C, 14TH Main Road
					    Rajajinagar,
					    Bangalore-560021

Nationality                               :   Indian
          
      Sex				 :    Female

Date of Birth                            :   10/06/1987

Hobbies                                    :   Listening to songs, reading books.

Languages know		 :   English, Kannada & Hindi.

          

Declaration:
 
 hereby  declare  that  above  mentioned information furnished by me is true and to the best of my knowledge.
      


Date:
Place:                                                                                                     


vikash srivastava 
 
I have been working since one year and a month in software development company and handlling mobile application development project using tools like ICENIUM APP Builder and Application craft.Also have worked in ASP.NET and MVC projects.
 
 
• Current Designation: Associate Software Developer
• Current Company: Fourace Infomatics Private Ltd.
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 22 Oct 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 4 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 3 Months
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9986719372Verified
 
• Email: vikash.fourace@gmail.com Verified
• Address: House No.70,Bada Pandeydih, dhanbad - 828306
 
• Key Skills: asp.net ado.net sql server c#, cordova, sql server 2013, asp.net c#, MVC, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, SQL, LINKQ
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 3a1973e31523e7b049Last Active: 16-Oct-14Last Modified: 15-Oct-14
Vikash Srivastava
 #18 3rd Phase,4th Cross,Roopena Agrahara, Bommanahalli, Banglore-560068.
Mobile: +91-9986719372, Email: vikash.fourace@gmail.com

	PERSONAL STATEMENT:

To obtain the Software Developer/Programmer position with Software Company where I can apply & enhance my knowledge, skill to serve the firm to the best of my efforts.
	TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Programming Languages: 
 VB .Net, C#
Technologies:
ASP .Net, Windows Form Applications, MVC 5.0, Ajax,JSON, JQuery, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Entity Framework 4.5, LINQ To SQL, Kendo UI,Cordova Framework
Operating Systems: 
Windows, Linux
Databases: 
SQL Server 2012, MySQL SERVER
Tools: 
Visual Studio 2013, Visual Studio 2012, Visual Studio 2010,Application Craft,App Builder
	SCHOLASTIC CREDENTIALS:

Bachelor of Engineering (2008-2013): 
STREAM: 	Computer Science & Engineering 
AGGREGATE: 	55.35%
INSTITUTION: 	Adichunchunagiri Institute of Techonology,Chikmagalur
UNIVERSITY: 	Visvesvaraya Technological University

Intermediate (2006-2008):
STREAM:	Sciene
PERCENTAGE:	63.4%%
INSTITUTION:	Indian School of Learning, Dhanbad(Jharkhand)
BOARD:		Central Board of Secondary Education

10th (2001):
PERCENTAGE:	76.4%
INSTITUTION:	Delhi Public School,Dhanbad(Jharkhad)
BOARD:		Central Board of Secondary Education
PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND:
1 year 2 Months experienced in C# software development. 
Company: Four Ace Infomatics Private Limited
Designation: Software Engineer
Duration: June 2013 to Till Now. (1 year 2 months)



PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN:

Project #1: ECABS for YOU

Organization
Four Ace Limited
Team Size
4
Technologies
ASP.Net 4.0, C#, EF 4.0
Database
SQL Server 2012
Script Language
JQuery,HTML5,CSS3,JAVASCRIPT,JSON,AJAX
Purpose
Cab Booking Mobile application for Android and IOS

Project Description:
A cab booking website and mobile application which is developed for users to book their cabs for their Current and future journey.

       Language Used 	- C#
       Platform 	- Visual Studio,Icenium App Builder
Role 	- Objective was to provide a secure and reliable website which helps to book the nearby Taxi for their jouney at an efficient cost.


Project # 2: Crises Control Application UK

Organization
Four Ace Limited
Team Size
2
Technologies
Applcication Craft Tool
Database
SQL Server 2012
Script Language
JQuery,Javascript
Purpose
Alert Platform
Project Description:
A Alert platform is developed for businesses who can alert their employees during a Crisis. At time of subscription/registration the business can choose pre-defined Incident as per Crises. Once the intiatialization is complete  a push notification is send to all employees regarding crisis and is confirmed by an administrator. This project was using Xtify push notification techonology to send notification and application craft tool to develop the applicatiion.

Role/Responsibilities:
•	Design and Development of application as per the requirement. 
•	Unit testing 
•	Maintenance and bug fixing 


	PERSONAL DETAILS:

Name		:	Vikash Srivastava
Father’s Name	:	Mr. Awadhesh Prasad Srivastava
Mother’s Name	:	Mrs. Sudha Srivastava
Nationality	:	Indian
Date of Birth	:	22th Oct,1990
Languages	:	English, Hindi




Vikash Srivastava

Yogeshkumar Tekade 
 
java developer
 
 
• Current Designation: Consultant Software Engineer
• Current Company: NTT DATA GLOBAL DELIVERY SERVICES
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Other
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 15 Jul 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 8 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 3.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 2 Months
• Highest Degree: MCA [Computers]
• Phone: 9900497947Verified
 
• Email: yogeshkumar.tekade@gmail.com Verified
• Address: 3 cross,6th main,AECS Layout,550066,Bangalore, Bangalore - 550066
 
• Key Skills: c,c++,sql,Core Java 6 or higher,OOPS/UML, Multithreading, Collection, Multithread,java script,ajax, Servlet, JSP, Ajax, Struts2,knowledge of spring and hibernate , MVC,XSD, XML, SOAP based and REST services,amazon web services,design patterns
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 2cc638a2790e95b075Last Active: 24-Sep-14Last Modified: 22-Sep-14
RESUME



YOGESHKUMAR GULABRAO TEKADE
3rd Cross, 6th Main, AECS layout, Bangalore, Karnataka-550037.
Contact: +919900497947
Passport Number: L2586762
Email: yogeshkumar.tekade@gmail.com
Career Objective:

• To Utilize my skills for achieving the target and delivering the best performance in Organization.
• I would like to implement my ideas, skills and creativity for accomplishing projects.


SUMMARY

• Working in NTT DATA Global Delivery Services, Bangalore.
• 2 years experience in java technologies.
• 8 months  Experience in SAP SD/CRM and SAP Testing.
• Done 3 Advance java projects and one Android Project
• Overall 2.8 years Experience. 

Academic Qualification:

Examination
Institute / Board
Year of Passing
Grade Obtained
Master Of Computer Application(Software Engineering branch)
University of  Pune
April 2012
First Class with DIST.
Bachelor of Computer Science
University of Nagpur 
June 2009
Second Class 
H.S.C.
Maharashtra State Board
Feb 2006
Second Class
    
S.S.C.
Maharashtra State Board 
March 2004
First Class






Personal Information:

Passport Number	: L2586762

Date of Birth		: 15 July, 1989
Nationality		: Indian
Marital Status		: Single
Languages Known	: Japanese up to the N3 level, English, Hindi and Marathi



 Known Technologies:
• Programming Skills: C, C++, Java, Ad Java,SQL, Oracle,PL-SQL
• Web Technologies : HTML, CSS, JAVA script, AJAX,XML, Servlets, JSP, Beans, Struts 2.0 framework, Spring Hibernate
• SAP CRM and Sales Distribution
• Databases: Oracle 11g, MS SQL SERVER 2008,DB2.
• OS  :Windows,Linux.
• Mobile Computing : ANDROID App Development version 4.0.4/4.3 - Advanced UI Creation, Multi touch Feature, Google Services like Google Maps, Location based Services like GPS, Working knowledge of various Sensors used in Mobile Applications, Sending SMS and Calling features, Working with SQLite.
• Networking: Basic Networking Fundamentals, Good understanding of various networking protocols.
• Cloud computing technology

Other Skills:
• Passed Exin Worldwide Cloud computing Certificate 
• Having knowledge of Software Engineering Concepts, SDLC.
• Bilingual (Japanese)Software Engineering training Program(Feb 2013-Nov 2013)


Projects Undertaken:

Title		: Carefusion SAP Testing Project
Date		: June 2014-Present
Company            : NTT  DATA Global delivery Services, Bangalore.
Location           : Bangalore
Technology	: SAP 
Description	: Creating manual  test cases ,developing automation scripts.
Role	: SAP SD and CRM consultant and automation test  developer.


Title		: SAP Projects
Date		: Feb2014-June2014
Company            : NTT DATA Global delivery Services, Bangalore.
Location           : Bangalore
Technology	: SAP 
Description	: automation and functional testing of SAP 
Role	: Worked as shadow Resource in SAP projects as SAP SD/CRM Consultant.





Title		: Document Management System
Date		: July 2012-Nov 2013
Company 	: Rocklike Document Management System Pvt Ltd.
Location	: Pune.
Technology	: Java, Cloud Computing
Used		: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Amazon Web Service Cloud Computing Concepts.
Role		: Work on SDLC  ,Java Classes ,Struts Framework and Cloud Concepts


Title		: Online Job Portal(Part Time Training Program)
Date		: Feb2013-Dec 2013
Location           :  Pune
Technology	: Mobile, Java, Servlet
Description	: Android  and  Web Application development.
Database	: Oracle, SQLite
Role	:  Requirement Analysis and Designing , android coding,  Servlet  Coding, Database     Design and Testing






Title		: Customer Relationship Management(Internship)
Date		: Feb 2012-May 2012
Company	: Vyomlabs Pvt Ltd.
Location	: Baner,Pune.
Technology	: Java-Servlets,Jsp.
Database	: Oracle.
Role	: Software Trainee-Java developer, Done Requirement Analysis and Designing , Servlet –Jsp Coding, Database  Design and Testing.



Extracurricular and Co-curricular Activities:
• Passed Exin-Worldwide Cloud Computing Foundation Certificate-23Sept 2012
• Runner-Up in Computer Society Of India (Pune) Technical Quiz Competition 2010-1012.
• Second In “Microsoft Quiz” Competition 2010-11(MMCOE-PUNE)
• Winner of “Abhudaya Quiz ”Competition in UG level 2008-09.
• Third In “Abhudaya Extempore Speech” Competition.
• First In Student Seminar Organized by B.S College.
• Seminars on Technical as well as Non Technical Topics (2009-12)
• Winner of “Ensemble Retro Icon-2011” held in MMCOE-Pune.


Interests and Hobbies:

• Reading Books, Magazines
• Playing Tabla
• Listening songs

Declaration:
• I hereby declare that the above information provided are true to best of my knowledge and belief.


Date:  

Place: Bangalore                                                                                                                          Yogeshkumar Tekade






srinivas 
 
Having 2+ Years of experience as a Software Engineer
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Developer
• Current Company: Ness Technologies
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Hyderabad,Pune,Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Gender: Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 5 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 8197966345Verified
 
• Email: p.srinivas_007@yahoo.co.in Verified
 
• Key Skills: I am proficient in java,j2EE. I have developed expertise in Hibernate,Struts.I have worked on multiple projects
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 492162dc6495e08284Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Oct-14

SREENIVAS
Email: p.srinivas_007@yahoo.co.in			          Contact No :+91-8197966345
Profile Summary:
• Around 2+ years of progressive experience in software development. With an earned reputation for meeting deadlines and delivering critical solutions.
• Good experience on web application development with strengths in J2SE/J2EE (JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and Struts) architecture.
• Good knowledge on ORM Framework like Hibernate. 
• Good exposure to relational databases such as Oracle, and MySql.
Experience Profile:
• Having 2+ Years of experience as a Software Engineer  in Ness Technologies Bangalore since June 2012 to Till date .
Technical Summary:
Programming  Languages		:	JAVA, SQL
JEE Technologies				:	Servlet, JSP
    Frameworks				:	Struts
    ORM Tools				:	Hibernate
Databases				:	Oracle, MySql
Web technologies			:	 Html
Web/App Servers			:	Tomcat 
Operating Systems			:	Windows 
Tools and Utils				:	Eclipse, Edit plus 

Education:
• Passed out B.Tech-2011 (Information Technology), secured 64% at Chirala Engineering College, Chirala.
• Passed out Intermediate-2007, secured 83% at Smt. Doodapaneni Indira Junior College, Tenali.
• 10th standard-2005, secured 75% at Z.P.P. High School, Mandur.



Project Experience:

PROJET# 1
Organization
Ness Technologies.
Project Title
Global Health Management
Environment
Oracle, JAVA, JSP, Struts, JDBC, Hibernate, Tomcat.
Role
Coding and Testing
Synopsis:
        Global Health Management includes registration of patients, storing their details into the system, and also computerized billing in the pharmacy, and labs. Our software has the facility to give a unique id for every patient and stores the details of every patient and the staff automatically. User can search availability of a doctor and the details of a patient using the id.
Key Responsibilities:

• Implementation of business logic and Creation of JSPs and form beans.
• Involved in Coding of the registration of patient details.
• Involved in implementation of DAO’s.
• Involved in persistence logic.

PROJET# 2
Organization
Ness Technologies
Project Title
Sprite Step off
Environment
Oracle, JAVA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Tomcat.        
Role
Coding and Testing
Synopsis:
        SSO is a web application solution for digital promotion campaign for the exciting and historical Step Competition entitled Sprite Step Off, with a $1.5 million prize pool and nationally televised content. The site gives a behind screens look into the Step Competition and provides more than enough content to get everyone excited for the national finals.
Key Responsibilities:

• Involved in analysis and design discussions.
• Implementation of integrated pagination framework.
• Involved in coding of the participants  details.
Personal Profile:
   Name				:		Sreenivas 
   Father's Name			:		Venkata SubbaRao
   Sex					:		Male
   Nationality				:		Indian
   Marital status			:		Single
   Languages known			:		English, Telugu
											(srinivas)
suresh 
 
Having 2 years of IT experience in implementation of Client/Server applications using J2EE technologies
 
 
• Current Designation: Java Developer
• Current Company: SureshReddy
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Client Server
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 02 Jun 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7204340621
 
• Email: vsuresh202@gmail.com Verified
 
• Key Skills: CoreJava, Servlets, JSP,JSF,Hibernate,Struts , JDBC, EJB,JMS, Basic Knowledge of XML and web services, ,HTML,AJAX, CSS.
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 0464902244317d5715Last Active: 16-Oct-14Last Modified: 19-Sep-14

						                             Mobile:+91-7204340621
   Suresh Reddy.V                                                         Email: vsuresh202@gmail.com                                                                                

Objective:
To work in a challenging environment as a Software Engineer utilizing my knowledge and logical thinking to my best in providing solutions in diverse domains and also where I can improve my Skills all the time according to the Global Market Trends.

Professional Summary:
➢ Having 2 years of IT experience in implementation of Client/Server applications using J2EE technologies.
➢ Extensive Experience on Core Java, JDBC and Server side technologies like Servlets, JSP and JSF
➢ Expertise in implementing frame works such as Hibernate, JSF.
➢ Experience in implementing Design Patterns such as MVC Pattern.
➢ Working knowledge on tools like Eclipse.
➢ Certification in SCJP (OCP CERTIFIED) with 91%.

Work Experience: 
➢ Worked as a Software Engineer in Tranz Networkz. Bangalore from July 2012 to till date.
Educational Summary:
➢   B. Tech in C.S.E from M.I.T.S Madanapalli, JNTU Ananthapur.
Areas of Expertise:
Programming Languages
Java
Web Technologies
J2EE (Servlets, JSP,JSF, JDBC,EJB, Basic Knowledge of XML and web services.) ,HTML,AJAX,CSS. 
Databases
Oracle.
Operating Systems
Windows XP, NT/2000
Servers
Apache Tomcat, WAS
ORM Tool
Hibernate
Framework
Hibernate, JSF
IDE
Eclipse.


Project #1:

  Title                        :  MY SALES 
  Role                        :  Developer
  Environment           :  Java, JSP and Oracle Database
  Organization             : Tranz Networkz, Bangalore
  Server                     :  Tomcat

Project Description:

             My Sales is a project internally initiated by Tranz networkz which needs to be developed for marketing as a product.  This product can be used by any organization / group of people who need to setup a forum for their discussions.  The product should have capabilities for defining events and sending reminders for the events based on the user preferences.  The product should also contain certain important modules related to Sales Force Automation including Contact Management and Campaign Management.

Roles &Responsibilities:

➢ Involved in Coding & development
➢ Creating JSP pages, involved as team member in coding.
➢ Involved in performing Database Operations using SQL.
➢ Generated Servlets and other java classes for the application
➢ Implemented JDBC for Database connectivity
➢ Involved in the unit testing of the application.

Project #2:
Title    
TDS
Role    
Developer
Client
Tranz Networkz
Environment
Java, JSF, Struts and Oracle Database
Organization              
Tranz Networkz, Bangalore
Server                      
WAS

Project Description:
             TDS is a project internally initiated by Tranz Networkz which needs to be developed for tax deduction. Tax deducted at source (TDS) and Tax collection at source (TCS), as the very names imply aim at collection of revenue at the very source of income. The concept of TDS requires that the person, on whom responsibility has been cast, is to deduct tax at the appropriate rates, from payments of specific nature which are being made to a specified recipient. The deducted sum is required to be deposited to the credit of the Central Government. The recipient from whose income, tax has been deducted at source, gets the credit of the amount deducted in his personal assessment on the basis of the certificate issued by the deductor.
Roles &Responsibilities:
➢ Involved in Coding & development.
➢ Application Deployment in WAS.
➢ Responsible for creating interactive web pages using JSF frame work.
➢ Creating JSP web pages, involved as a team member in coding.
➢ Implementing JDBC for Database connectivity.
➢ Involved in the unit testing of the application.
➢ Involved in Bug Fixing.
Personal details:
      Name                       	   :     Suresh Reddy. V
      Gender		       	   :     Male
      Nationality	        	   :     Indian
      Marital Status	        	   :     Single
      Languages Known   	   :     English, Telugu and Hindi
Declaration:
The information provided is true to the best of my knowledge. I will try best to do the work assigned to me without any postponement. I hope you will give me a chance to prove myself.



Place: Bangalore                                                                     (Suresh Reddy. V)
                                                                                          
sushant naik 
 
B.E in Electrical And Electronics Engineering,2013 batchout .Working in an IT firm..looking for a change
Sushant Naik
Key skills are java,sql,Hibernate,Struts1.xx,2.xx
 
 
• Current Designation: Application Developer
• Current Company: IBM Global Services India Private Limited(CONTRACTOR)
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Anywhere in South India
• Functional Area: IT Software - Client Server
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 06 Jun 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Electrical]
• Phone: 7204500104Verified
 
• Email: rsushant91@gmail.com Verified
• Address: AshanKiran
behind nirmala madam hostel
shedgeri
vandige, ANKOLA - 581357
 
• Key Skills: java,Jsp,Sevlet,sql,Hibernate,Struts1.xx,2.xx,pl/sql
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 54905f307e55d42837Last Active: 29-Sep-14Last Modified: 29-Sep-14

                                                                                                         
Sushant Naik 
Mobile : +91-7204500104                                              E-mail  : rsushant91@gmail.com

Objective:
                  Seeking a professional career to prove myself in a challenging position in the
development of software using Java and J2EE technologies, and to work hard sincerely 
with determination towards goals and objective of company.
Professional Summary:
➢ Having overall 1 year of experience in IT industry in the areas of Coding, Implementation of projects using  java Technologies.
➢ Experience in developing applications using JAVA, J2EE (Servlet, JSP, and JDBC)
➢ Ability to learn new Technologies.
➢ Good Team Member.

Professional Experience:
• Worked as a Software Engineer in Kclink Software Technologies Pvt. Ltd.,  from  Aug 2013 to July  2014.
• Currently Working in IBM (*CONTRACTOR) as a Developer from July 18th 2014.

Educational Qualifications:
• Completed BE(EEE) with Aggregate 65.24% From AMCEC Bangalore,Karnataka

• 12th with 65%  from G.C College Ankola, UttarKannada ,Karnataka

• 10th  with 89.12% from PMHS Bobruwada, Ankola ,UttarKannada, Karnataka

Software Exposure:
      
      Programming Languages	:	Java
      Database Languages		:	MySql5.5.
      IDE’s				:	Eclipse Indigo, My Eclipse 8.6
      Web Technologies		:	HTML, JavaScript.	
      Frameworks			:	Struts 1.2,Struts2.
      Web server			:	Tomcat 6.
      Operating Systems		:	Windows 2007/XP.
      
Project Profile

Project#1
Title			:  Cars Hub
Duration		:  Feb 2014-June 2014

Environment		:  Java, J2EE, Struts 1.2, MySql 5.5, Tomcat 6, Eclipse Indigo
Role			:  Developer
Team Size		:  10

Description:

      The main intention of this web application is, it brings to you the finest car buying and selling experience at the best possible value by connecting buyers and sellers in the most convenient way with the largest inventory of used cars in a single location in India. This application has 5 modules used cars, new cars, insurance, valuation, research.    
Responsibilities:

• Involved in the requirements gathering.
• Involved in Coding and Implementation.
• Developing the web application using struts framework.
• Use Hibernate framework for the java objects persistence in database
• Developing the User interfaces using JSP, Html.






Project# 2
Title			:  CRS
Duration		:  Nov 2013-Jan 2014
Role			:  Developer
Environment		:  Java, Servlets, MySql 5.5, Tomcat 6, Eclipse Indigo







Description:

      This is a web based CRM, which provides all the information about customer details, servicemen details in database. The main aim of the project is to maintain the relationship of the customers of particular industry. Relationships define the feedback of the product from the industry and also providing service to the customers according to the details maintained in database. This provides good communication dealing with customers for the industries.

Responsibilities:
• Involved in writing the Classes using Servlet.
• Involved in writing queries for data insertion, retrieval from database.




Personal Details:
Date of Birth	:   08-06-1991.
Languages Known	:   English, Hindi, Kannada,Telugu.
Marital Status	:   Single.
Nationality	:   Indian.
Present Address		:   Banglore, Karnataka.



      I hereby declare that above furnished details are true to the best of my knowledge and I hold myself liable for precedence, if any.

Place	:									Yours Sincerely,
Date	:						
                                                                                                            ( Sushant Naik )

 vanishree 
 
B.E,with 2.4years experience in development using java and j2ee mysql ajax javascript
 
 
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 08 Sep 1988 / Female
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 4 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.30 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 2 Months
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7259210475Verified
 
• Email: vanikariyappa@gmail.com Verified
 
• Key Skills: java,j2ee,javascript,mysql,ajax(Basics),struts 1.3,struts 2,hibernate
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 7ed996254cfc367745Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Oct-14


Vanishree K                                                 	       email: vanikm.2011@gmail.com                                                                                                                
                                                                          mobile:+91-9986043845      
                                                                                             +91-7259572894
                                                                                                                                                                               
 	                                       
SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE

● Having 2.7 years of experience in developing Software Applications using Java / J2EE technologies. 
● Good working exposure in Software Application Development based on J2EE enterprise solutions using Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts 1.x, javascript , ajax, jquery mysql.
● Good working knowledge in using Open Source frameworks.
● Strong technical skills & good exposure to Java.
● Good communications and inter-personal skills


 TECHNICAL SKILLS
 
Primary Skills
Java, J2EE
Operating Systems 
Windows 2000/XP
Languages 
 Java 5
Client/Server Technologies
 Servlets 2.5 , JSP 2.0 , Apache 5.5.javamail api
Framework
Struts 1.x 
ORM
Hibernate  3.4(Basic)
Database
Mysql
Configuration Tools
SVN 1.7
Development Tools
Eclipse 3.4
Scripts
JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery
Database Connectivity
JDBC
       

 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
       
Having 2.7 years of Experience as a “Software Developer” using java and j2ee technologies.

I have received Best Performer Award for the 1st quarter of 2014.


 EDUCATION
 
 B.E Information Science  from, shree Krishna institute of Technology, Bangalore.
 Pass out in 2010 with 60%.
 Secondary Education from sheshadripuram  PU College with 77.00% in 2006.
 SSLC from MEC with 81% in 2004.

 PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN


1) Project Name : “iERP[Integrated Enterprise Resource Planning]”

     Team Size : 3

     Client : Jain University and Itech(Product)

      Duration: Jan 2014 to till date
  
      Website URL: www.itecherp.in
	
      Description	: Enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system has an objective to integrate all of the business data and process so it can be managed in most effective and efficient way. It reduces the redundant data and process by making all data from various business processes in a company can be accessed by all departments of the company. By doing so, a data only needs to be entered once by a department that triggers it in its business process, and then it can be used by other departments according to their business process needs.
      iERP Project contains following modules : 
                        1>Payroll Module :  Payroll module contains attendance, leave, Timesheet , Expense, payroll setting, Pay slip generation ,automatic emailing payslip’s to employees and Employee registration file upload and download, Reports and Search functionalities.
                    2>Inventory Module : Inventory Module contains Purchase req.uest, Purchase order, Place an purchase order , update goods received , Good manufacturing date, Intra ware house transfer and Upload items category vendor names in one file using software and also reports and search functionalities. 
                      3>Sales Module :  Sales module contains enquiry , quotation appointments negotiation , Reports and search functionalities.
                      4>Library Module : Library module contains Book Request , Book returns, Generate No Due Certificate, email notifications, Reports and search functionalities.
                      5>Accounts Module : Accounts module contains Ledger Entry , Cash Book , Daily Book, Profit & Loss functionalities, search and Reports Functionalities etc. 

Responsibilities :
    • Involved in designing database according to requirement and   development.
    • Have worked on payroll, Inventory, Accounting, Library and sales modules
    • Have worked on Reports and Search modules for  various conditions.
    • Responsible for Integration of modules with user Interface and Unit Testing.
    • Responsible for Interacting with clients for gathering requirement and giving demo and training to employees at client place over team viewer, skype or in person.
    • Deployment and Configuration of application in go daddy server.

Environment		: Java 1.5, JSP, Struts 1.x, Servlet, Tomcat 5.0, MySql, Ajax, JQuery,  
           Javascript.

2)Project Name     : “TRANSCRIPTION MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE(TMS)”
     
   Team Size 	: 4
  
   Duration : May 2012 - Jan 2013
     
    Client : Datascribe

    Web Application link : datascribe.in

    Description : Medical transcription Management system is the process of                            
                       Converting voice files into accurate data files in the required format. 
                        VRS converted documents are assigned to client experienced team of                         
                        Transcriptionists who checks for the errors, and save them in a 
                        Workspace. Team of Editors and quality analysts will review these  
                        Files and valuations for each medical transcriptionist are then passed
                        On to account department for calculating the salary.

    TMS Project contains following modules : Admin Module, Master Data Module ,   
                           File Upload, File download, VRS File upload , MT Functionalities , 
                           Editor Functionalities , Direct Uploader Functionalities , quality           
                           Analyst , AGM Functionalities i.e Allocating files to employees at 
                           Various level. Reallocation, Chat, alerts , accounts functionalities 
                           Like generating invoices , Incentive reports , Line count and 
                           Accuracy. Error Tracking etc…. 
                                                                                                                
Responsibilities	:
        
•  Responsible for writing struts action classes and JSP’s
•  Responsible for struts DAO and Handler classes.
•  Responsible for allocating files to default medical transcriptionist.
• Developed Accounts functionality, including both back-end and front-end parts
• Estimation, Design and Development of various modules.
• Worked on Unit Testing and Integration of the modules.
• Worked on signed jar creation for some swings and Applet Programs
• Configured and Deployed application in the clients server.
        
Environment		: Java 1.5, JSP, Struts 1.x, Servlet, Tomcat 5.0, MySql, Ajax, JQuery,  
                               Javascript. 

3)Project Name : “MDAT(Medical Data Analysis Tool)”

Team Size : 3.

URL : http://www.itechmdat.com/

Duration : Sep 2013– Jan 2014

Description :      MDAT is designed for Columbia Asia hospital, especially for the 
                        department Cardio-Vascular. It involves different modules like Admin,
                        user, Patient registration and his complete information which includes
                        History, Clinical Features, Other test master, General information, Post 
                       procedure, Intra procedure, Premaster modules.

Responsibilities	:

• Worked on patient registration module in which patient details is entered and creates patient Id.
• History physical examination and investigation modules which are embedded with patient registration.
• Master data creations which are required for the main modules of history, physical examinations and others. 
• Generation of Patient summary based on the updated status of the patient health condition. 
• Worked on Report Module Based on the various condition and parameters.
• Worked on integration and Unit testing of the project.

Environment		: Java 1.5, JSP, Struts 1.x,Servlet, Tomcat 5.0, MySql, Ajax, JQuery,  
                               Javascript.

2)Project Name     : “Franchisee Management Software(FMS)”
     
   Team Size 	: 5
  
   Duration : Feb 2013 to till Date
    
    Client : Greenloaf Restaurant
 
   Description :   A master franchise is a franchising contract in which the 
                         master franchisor (the owner of the brand name) hands over the 
                         control of the franchising activities in a specified territory    
                         to a person or entity, called the "master franchisee".   
                          Master franchising is a method that has been employed  
                         by most franchise systems. The operational efficiency of these 
                         systems, with their distinctly complex organizational form,  
                         benefits from increased growth rates of the subfranchises.    

Modules :    Order Module
                   Billing Module
                   Inventory Module
                   Reports Module
                   Search Module
                     
Responsibilities	:
        
    •  Involved in designing database according to requirement and   development.
    • Have worked on payroll, Inventory, Accounting and sales modules.
    • Have worked on Reports and Search modules for  various conditions.
    • Responsible for Integration of modules with user Interface and Unit Testing.
    • Responsible for Interacting with clients for gathering requirement and giving demo and training to employees at client place over team viewer, skype or in person.
        
Environment		: Java 1.5, JSP, Struts 1.x,Servlet,Tomcat 5.0, MySql, Ajax, JQuery,  
                               Javascript. 


Other projects I have handled are

1>EMR(Electronic Medical Record)
2>KNI(Karnataka News Images)
3>Web Portal
4>RNP
5>Blue kart
6>MMVISA : www.mmvisa.com
7>Caritor 
8>PTLMS : www.plttracker.com
9>Spell Check software
Additional Responsibility I have handled in this company are
1>Involved in end to end recruitment of fresher’s and Experienced candidates.
2>Involved in business development, attending website design and development enquiries from various country, preparing effort estimation in terms of number of days , preparing proposal, convincing clients in terms of effort and our capabilities . Involved in demo and presentation to our clients. Doubt clearance to clients etc.
3>Involved in building team and training fresher’s etc.
          
 PERSONAL PROFILE

          Name	: 		Vanishree 
PAN Card		: 		AOHPV1532R
Passport                 :                      Applied
Address 		: 		2654 12th main E block
                                                2nd stage 
                                                Rajajinagar          
                                               Bangalore-560010


Date  :
Place : Bangalore      	                                                (Vanishree)

								
			
V.Bhagya Sindhu 
 
B.Tech
 
 
• Current Designation: Recuriter
• Current Company: CCIT
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Hyderabad
• Functional Area: HR / Administration / IR
• Role: Recruitment Executive
• Industry: Recruitment
• Date of Birth / Gender: 27 Jul 1991 / Female
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 10 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 8861015307
 
• Email: bhagya.sindhu30@gmail.com Verified
• Address: H NO: 1-7-94/1,
Sai Jyothi residency ,north kamalanagar,
E.C.I.L,HYD, hyderabad - 500062
 
• Key Skills: HTML,fresher, .Net,Java,Core Java,SAP(SD,QM,MM,WM,FICO,ABAP,BASIS),ASP.NET,C#.NET
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 4ce58aa474fc900314Last Active: 24-Sep-14Last Modified: 24-Sep-14Report Resume
 

BHAGYA SINDHU .V
08861015307
bhagya.sindhu30@gmail.com


OBJECTIVE
To obtain a challenging position with a progressive organization that will fully utilize my talents and technical skills and help me reach higher echelons.

EDUCATION
• B -Tech[ in stream of IT] from JNTU in 2012 

Work Experience:

Currently Working With COOL CAREERS IT Ptv Ltd in Bangalore as JR Recruiter from Oct’	13 to till date.


Working Skills in Detail:

➢ End to End recruitment process
➢  Getting the requirements from the clients through delivery head
➢ Understanding those requirements and Job Profile
➢  Sourcing and screening of the profiles through portals, references, from the existing database
➢  Good working knowledge on portals
➢  Mass mailings, job postings and sending jobs as a mail
➢  Uploading jobs via excel by creating an excel sheet which is related to the job profile
➢ Managing the database of the profiles in relevant folders and creating, maintaining the trackers
➢ Scheduling the Interviews and follow up of the candidates
➢ Closing the positions as per the lead time
➢  Worked on various IT skills and Non IT and good Technical Knowledge.

Clients that I have worked:
NTT DATA, FIS, Tech Mahindra………


IT Technologies Worked: 

SAP : Basis, ABAP , FICO , SD , QM/WM ,PM, HR , PP,MM,ABAP HR, HR PayRoll, CRM, BI/BW , BODS ,HRM.

Web & Frameworks: Technologies: Java, J2EE, J2ME JSP, JSF, EJB, Struts, springs, JSP, Servlets, Swings, Hibernate, OOAD, Web logic, Web sphere, Web services.

Microsoft Technologies: VB, ASP, ASP .Net, VB.Net, C#.

Embedded Technologies: C,C++, RTOS, ARM, Device drivers, BSP, Linux Kernel, Linux internal, DLNA, DTV,STB.

System Admin: Windows, UNIX, Linux, Solaris, HP-UX

Testing : Automation, Manual, Performance and Load Testing, Unit Testing.

Source Technologies: PHP, Python, Perl.

DBMS : Oracle DBA, SQL DBA, MYSQL DBA, DB2 DBA Oracle PL/SQL- Forms and Reports, Oracle
Fusion.

ERP: SAP (MM, WM, HCM, SRM, ABAP, FICO, Basis), Oracle Apps.

DWBI: ETL, Informatica, Cognos,BusinessObjects, Data stage

SYNOPSIS
Young, energetic and result oriented professional with Self motivated, hardworking, dedicated with ability to understand and meet the time lines; Highly ambitious and very good understanding of the organizational needs.
• Outstanding Academics & Achievements
• Good Analytical and Communication skills
• Proactively seek challenges

SOFTWARE PROFICIENCY

Programming languages		: JAVA, HTML, .NET
Operating systems		: Windows 07
Application software		: MS-Office (Word, PowerPoint, Excel)
Web designing			: HTML, Java Script

PERSONAL DETAILS

Father’s name 		:  Late V. Subba Reddy
Mother’s name		:  V. Usha Rani
Date of Birth 		: 27-07-1991
Languages known 	: Telugu, English, Hindi

DECLARATION

I hereby declare that all statements made above are true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge and believe



V .Bhagya  Sindhu

IT SOFTWARE 
 
I am a software engineer in TCS ,bagalore company , and also completed trainning on SQL,MYSQL,JAVA,JDBC,SERVLETS,JSP,STRUTS 1,JSF,HIBERNATE,SPRING 3 ,EJB ,RIM .
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: Tata Consultancy Services Limited (TCS)
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Client Server
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 20 Jan 1992 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 6 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.05 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Electronics/Telecommunication]
• Phone: 9999999999
 
• Email: manishcusat688@gmail.com Verified
• Address: at-thahara,p.o-maker,saran,bihar, saran - 841215
 
• Key Skills: SQL,MYSQL,JAVA,JDBC,SERVLETS,JSP,STRUTS 1,JSF,HIBERNATE,SPRING 3 ,RMI ,EJB ,,geoserver, liferay
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 0d2148714176128893Last Active: 10-Oct-14Last Modified: 10-Oct-14

    				
                                                             MANISH KUMAR
			
E-mail: manishcusat688@gmail.com                                                       Mobile: +91 9483411597

Objective
               To work in a growth oriented organization that has a challenging work environment which will enhance my learning curve and sharpen my professional skills in a dynamic workplace and  It encourages creativity to offer an opportunity for Individual development as professional.
Profile Summary

• Hands on Experience in Hibernate Framework, Spring Framework, Spring MVC,
Struts Framework, JEE5 Technologies (JSF1.2, JPA), J2EE Technologies (JDBC, JSP, Servlets), J2EE Design Patterns.
• Good Knowledge in XML (DTD, SCHEMA, SAX, DOM, JAXB), Struts 2 Framework, EJB3, JPA

Work Experience
Duration
Designation
Organization
MAY  2013 to OCT 2013
Software Engineer
BIZRUNTIME , Bangalore
OCT 2013 to  till
Software Engineer
TCS,Bangalore
Technical Skill

Operating System
Windows 98/NT/2000
Languages
Java, SQL 
Application/Web Servers
 Apache Tomcat, JBoss.
J2EE Technologies	
JDBC, Servlets, JSP
JEE5 Technologies
JSF, EJB3, JPA
RDBMS	
Oracle, MySQL.
Frameworks	
Struts, Hibernate, Spring.
IDE
Eclipse, MyEclipse
other
Liferay
Tools
Maven, Log4j, CVS, JUnit.

Education                                                                         

• B.Tech (ECE) from COCHIN UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ,KERALA









Projects Undertaken

     Project #1	:	GIO  
    Client		:	GIO, Australia.
    Duration		:	Feb 2014 – Till Date
    Role		:	Developer
    Team Size		:	12
    Environment	:         Java, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Eclipse, JBoss & Oracle
    
   Description: 
                  This Application will provide small businesses to apply for policies. This application is a single policy, with multiple coverage parts, designed to fulfill the insurance needs of small business owners. It gives the small business owner the flexibility of purchasing combinations of the insurance coverages. In this module we provide the users all types of operations like Endorsements, renewals, holds, automatic renewals, cancellations etc.
       Customer Support Tool is another module which will be used by Customer support executives to support the customers. Customers can make request or compliant over the phone to executives which will be stored in the database using this tool.

    Responsibilities:
• Designed JSP’s as per the Requirement.
• Implemented Spring Controllers.
• Implemented Commands and their Validations.
• Written Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations.
• Written Spring DAO’s and their implementations With Hibernate.
• Injected Spring DAO’s into Spring Services.
• Written Hibernate Components.

    Project #2	:	Hospital Management System  
    Client		:	Hurley Medical Center, Michigan
    Duration		:	Nov 2013 – Feb 2014
    Role		:	Developer
    Team Size		:	10
    Environment	:         Java, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, JBoss & Oracle

Description: 
       The Hospital Management System (HMS) is a comprehensive system that integrates all the departments in a hospital and automates most of its major functions. The project entitled “Hospital Management System” is a web-enabled application that deals with hospital information system helps to handle the day to day activities of the hospital like patient treatment details, allocation of duty to Doctors, Nurses, Diet given to the patients etc. It is very tedious job if it operates manually by maintaining books. It also provides corresponding reports for providing necessary information to the authorities.

Responsibilities:

• Designed JSP’s as per the Requirement.
• Implemented Action Classes.
• Implemented Form Beans and their Validations.
• Written Spring DAO’s and their implementations With Hibernate.
• Injected Spring DAO’s into Spring Services
• Written Hibernate Components.






 rina borkar 
 
software devloper havving 1 year 3 month experience in java/j2ee technology.
 
 
• Current Designation: software devloper
• Current Company: YBN technology and marketting solution pvt ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 13 Jan 1990 / Female
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 3 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.15 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7411833025Verified
 
• Email: reenaborkar.56@gmail.com Verified ,
reenaborkar@ymail.com
• Address: marathahlli bangalore, Bangalore - 560037
 
• Key Skills: java/j2ee,javascript,ajax,json,mysql
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 75d57e167a9f939b30Last Active: 14-Oct-14Last Modified: 14-Oct-14Report Resume
 

                                 RINA TANBA BORKAR
 
 Address:					    	 Contact: 
 # 991,7th cross, tulsi theatre road,                         	 Email: reenaborkar.56@gmail.com                                                 
Marathahalli, Bangalore			      	 Phone: 7411833025
Karnataka-560037                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  


 OBJECTIVE:
                 To become a successful professional by working with dedication and commitment in 	an esteemed organization where I can put my knowledge and enthusiasm to expand my 	potential to the maximum for the growth of the organization.
 
 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
• Current Organization	: YBN Technology and Marketting solution  pvt ltd.
• Designation		:  Software developer.
• Joined 			:  10th  August-2013
1.CURRENT PROJECT DETAIL 
• Project Name		: Commonslot. 
• Technologies used	: Spring mvc ,jsp, hibernate,json. 
• Platform		: windows.
• IDE                              :Eclipse.
• Role			: Working on the development of web app for commonslot. 
1.Worked on spring security for login .
2.Worked on  sending time request to the user and scheduling appointment with the user.
3.Worked on Creating timeboard by public and private type.
4.Worked on coding for the editing and deleting the timeboard and publishing events to the user.
5.Worked on coding part for showing the user created timeboard event list.
Description		: Time is essence of our life. Commonslot helps you to find that right time or common time which works best for you and somebody else. Commonslot is time manager for professionals, businesses and individuals! Commonslot is expected to be the place where millions of people look at when they think of Time.

2. PROJECT DETAIL 
• Project Name		: refer247. 
• Technologies used	: JSON,Javascript,Jquery,jquery mobile. 
• Platform		: windows phone 8.
• IDE                              :Microsoft visual studio(with phonegap framework).
• Role			: Worked on development of  refer247 customer app for windows phone 8.
1.Worked on registering the customer based on email id and phonenumber.
2.Worked for session management using client side cookie.
3.Worked on  posting need to the needboard by privacy -public or private.
4. Implemented searching merchant from the brand and subscribing to the  merchant.
5.Worked on giving recommendations and referrals based on the need in the needboard listed  to the phonebook-contacts. 
6.Worked on reward part for giving rewards from merchant to the customer on successful referral.
Description		: Referral in any business is the easiest way to sell and confirm customer’s satisfaction/loyalty. However, it is not easy for business to Get referral, and to track referral.Refer247 is a mobile app which makes it very simple for a business to generate referral from existing customers.It is a platform where merchants or Brands rewards their existing customers for bringing new customer.
 
 ACADEMIC RECORD:

Course
Name of School/College
Year of Passing
Percentage/CGPA
B.TECH (CSE)
Govt. college of Engg, Amravati, Maharashtra.
2012
71.11
HSC (12th )
Nanaji Joshi Junior college, shahapur, Maharashtra
2007
79.83%
 SSC(10th )
Sarswati Vidyalaya,  Arjuni/mor, Maharashtra.
2005
82.40%


TECHNICAL SKILLS:


 TRAINING COMPLETD:  Have completed TRAINING on Java/J2ee Technology  at Lara Technology, Bangalore from May 2013 to November 2013.

AREA OF INTEREST: Data Structure, Operating System, DBMS, Networking.

ACADEMIC PROJECTS:
B.Tech(Major Project):
• Application control using dexture image
Technology used: Java					Development Tool: Eclipse
Description: It deals with gestures by which user can control various applications like notepad, paint and control panel. It allows the user to input the data by executing bare handed gesture in front of the camera. It provides an alternative to the traditional hardware devices like keyboard and monitor.

ACHIEVEMENTS AND EXTRA CURRICULUM:

• 1st prize in Essay Writing Competition in Vidharbh at Raman Science, Nagpur and Nominated for State Level Easy Writing Competition in year 2004.
• 1st prize in Rangoli Competition at Govt. College of Engineering Amravati in 2009.
• Wallpaper Secretary in Association of Computer Science and Engineering at GCOE Amravati in 2010.
• Participated in the event “Blitzkrieg-2011” at datta Meghe College, Wardha.

 PERSONAL DETAILS
Name		 : Rina Tanba Borkar
Sex		 : Female
Nationality	 : Indian
Date of Birth	 : 13-Jan-1990
Marital Status : Single
Languages	  : English, Marathi, Hindi.

Place: Bangalore								[Signature]
Date: 									 	Rina Borkar      

Basanth kumar JM 
 
BASANTHA Resume BE fresher in information science and engg 2013 passed out with 65% throught and JAVA certifierd and SQL certified..
 
 
• Current Designation: Associate software trainee
• Current Company: RiseOn tech pvt ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: Fresher/Trainee
• Date of Birth / Gender: 28 Feb 1992 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 7 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.50 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9620602338Verified
 
• Email: basanth.jajur@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Banglore , old madiwala , harshavardhana pg. BTM layout 1st stage .., kotturu bellary distict.. - 583134
 
• Key Skills: java j2ee, c c java, java j2ee, java j2ee, java j2ee hibernate, java j2ee servlets jsp, java fresher, java j2ee servlets jsp struts, java j2ee developer, java j2ee, pl sql, c unix basics, JAVA, J2EE, SQl, HTML
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 296c02215db42ba573Last Active: 12-Oct-14Last Modified: 28-Sep-14

					
BASANTH KUMAR J M					   Harshavardhana  gents PG, #404/5,                                            
9620602338						                  17th main , old madiwala,  
basanth.jajur@gmail.com					   BTM 1st stage,Banglore-560068

Objective
      Seeking challenging career to utilize my skills and ability to add value to the growth of the company that offers security and professional growth while being resourceful, innovative and flexible.
       
Education

Course
Board /
University

Year of Passing

Institution
% of Marks

B.E(IS&E)

V.T.U Belgaum

2013

S.J.M.I.T Chitradurga
65.5%
P.U.C
Department of Pre-University Education
2009
Kottureshwara Collège, Kotturu.
66.5%
S.S.L.C
Karnataka SE Board
2007
Kolashanteshwara high school, Kotturu.
84.5%

Technical Experiences

Programming Languages Known 		:  C,  JAVA (core java)
Packages/IDE Experience 	:  Microsoft Office, Turbo C ,Eclipse.
Platforms				     	:  Microsoft Windows XP /7, Unix
Web						:  HTML, CSS
Database					:  Oracle.

Project

• Title: Tiered Authentication of Multicast Protocol for Ad-hoc Networks(TAM): 
• Technology Used: Java     
• No of Persons:  4
• My role: Front end designing and wrote modules for UI components and Database connection.
   Transferring of data or file from one computer to another computer by giving the Authentication (giving the username and password).So, that the hackers can’t be access that file or data. 
   
Technical Training
➢ Undergoing training on JAVA in KBS Technologies.

Achievements
➢ Participated and got certificate of Rashtrapathi puraskar in scout and guides.
➢ Represented my college for VTU sports.
➢ Coordinator of cultural fest held at SJMIT College on October 2012.
➢ Presented paper on “Surface computing” at SJMIT College as part of final year Seminar. 

Extra curricular activities
➢ Photography & Photo editing, Drawing & Chess. 

Personal strengths
➢ Comprehensive problem solving ability
➢ Good verbal and written communication skills
➢ Good presentation skills
➢ Good team player
➢ Flexible to work and adapt to any situation and work place

Personal details
Name				:  Basantha kumar JM
Father’s Name 		:  Manjunatha JB 
Date of birth 			:  28th Feb 1992
Gender 			:  Male
Languages Known 		:  English, Kannada, Telugu. 
Permanent  Address	:  Near ramesh complex , opposite house 
   B S Veerabadrappa (Ex-MLA) renuka road,
   Kotturu -5831344 ,Bellary (dist) Kudligi (tq).

Declaration			
      
      I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.
                                                                                        
                                                                                        

								
Date:									Basantha kumar JM

Place:
brahmam 
 
Android Application Developer Resume ...!
 
 
• Current Designation: Junior Developer
• Current Company: Samskrut Technologies
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 23 Nov 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 1 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.80 Lac(s)
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9738645389
 
• Email: brahmam.cmrit@gmail.com Verified
• Address: brahmam.cmrit@gmail.com
 
• Key Skills: Android,Java,Objectve-c,c.
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 40c8a9d70e6f8bcb09Last Active: 15-Oct-14Last Modified: 15-Oct-14

						 		                                                                                                                                                                   
P.Brahmam 
ANDROID APPLICATION DEVELOPER

MobileNo:+919738645389                                                             Email:brahmam.cmrit@gmail.com

                                 	
CAREER OBJECTIVE:
To work in competitive environment and to associate myself with the organization to put my hard work and skills for mutual benefit of both.
SUMMARY: 
•	Having 1+  experience in the field of Information Technology with very good emphasis on creating Mobile Applications.
•	Having experience on implementing activities,services,broadcast receivers and content providers.
•	Implementation of Background tasks for Network Calls  through Asynctask,Intent Services, Threads, Thread-pool Executor and Handlers. 
•	I have experience on usage  web-service ,json parsing and xml parsing.
•	Good experience making  db operation on sqlite for basic CRUD  and  Loaders, Asyncloaders.
•	Good Knowledge on Design different Screens using different widgets.
•	Having good experience on integration with third-party jars like volley, parse, Facebook, twitter, amazon cloud, Google analytic.
•	Debugging and error guessing skills.
•	Optimized coding , Building utility classes and Business classes.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: 

➢ Currently working as an Mobile Application Developer for Samskrut Technologies., Bangalore since 5th  Feb 2014 to Till Date.
➢ Four months work experience on Java in  Traitsys Technologies Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore.

ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION:
➢ B.Tech from CMRIT through JNTU in the year 2012.
 
TECHNICAL SKILLS:

Android                       	: Fragements, Adapters,Pagination,Job queue, Animation , Layouts, 
  View ,Imageloaders(volley,picaso) , Integration(Facebook , Twitter) ,
   Barcode Scanner, QRCode Scanner .
SDK				: Facebook, Amazon S3 cloud, Parse.
Programming Languages	: Java,Objective-c,c. 
Database			: Sqlite
Operating Systems		: Windows family
Web Technologies		: HTML, Javascript.




Project 1: 

Application Title	
EventSmart   (Visitor app for Tradeshows & exhibitions)
Environment
ANDROID 
Technical Environment
 Java,Objective-c, ADT
Operating System
Windows 7
Client
Samskrut Technologies, Bangalore
Role
Junior Software Engineer
Product Domain url
http://eventsmart.in/
Google playstore link
https://play.google.com/store/apps/developer?id=Samskrut+Technologies
App Store link
http://goo.gl/l08boR 

Description:

Event-smart  is  a Product based high-end mobile application that has been integrated with web-services. Mainly the aim of this product is getting the information of Trade-shows and exhibitions in  a single smart app for android ios mobile users. It contains the  list of exhibitors (along with document attaching),agenda,speakers, integrated venue map  with Google map,travel details,getting valuable survey from visitors, social networks integration along with customized banners and maintains branding in all possible views.

Responsibilities:
1. Created specific user interface (UI) for  four  mobile resolution(mdpi, hdpi, xhdpi, xxhdpi).
2. UX Design.
3. Developed ulity classes and DAO’s
4. Debugging and bug fixing and code optimization.

Project 2: 

Application Title	
CardLeadr (Superfast Lead Management @Tradeshows & exhibitions)
Environment
ANDROID 
Technical Environment
 Java, ADT
Operating System
Windows 7
Client
Samskrut Technologies, Bangalore
Role
Junior Software Engineer
Product Domain url
http://cardleadr.com/
Google playstore link
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.samskrut.cardleadr

Description:
CardLeadr  is  a product based commercial mobile application, the aim of this product is  connecting exhibitors to visitors on smartphones, in real time and getting live data on the spot.Mainly, this product has good features, those are Scanning visitor badge to get live info about the visitor, Qualify Visitors on the spot and add notes to remember visitor interactions & business discussions for future follow-ups, Track Visitor followups in online Assign qualified leads to sales team and track followup progress beyond Trade-shows and finally, Conduct visitor surveys & contests at the Trade-shows, Analyze results for future actions & followups.




Responsibilities:
1. Mantaining better UX and UI Design for four mobile resolution(mdpi, hdpi, xhdpi, xxhdpi)
2. Fully Optimizing Code.
3. R&D work on demand

Achievements :
• Participated in information security workshop and certified by IIT Karakpur .
• Certification from Hitachi Consulting pvt ltd for successful completion of test. 
•  Participated in college and school level debate and essay competition and received  applaud.

DECLARATION:  
           	I hereby declare that the above mentioned information is correct to the best of my  Knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above-mentioned particulars.


Place:      
Date:                                                                                                                              (P.Brahmam)

 Chaten Lohani 
 
Java Developer with Good Technical Skill working in oracle retail
 
 
• Current Designation: Executive Software Engineer
• Current Company: Infodart Technologies
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 28 Jun 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.40 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Electronics/Telecommunication]
• Phone: 9972014986Verified
 
• Email: chatenlohani@rediff.com Verified ,
chetandit@gmail.com
• Address: Gandhi Nagar ward no-2,, Lalkaua - 262402
 
• Key Skills: Java Developer, JAVA, JSP , J2SE,J2EE,c,C++,Python,Mysql,Linux,Python Developer,Hibernate,oracle pl/sql,Struts1.0,Struts 2.0,Hibernate 3.0,Servlet,Xml,EJB 2.0,Spring 3.0,Oracle Retail
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 05b53d4b34f0e20708Last Active: 26-Sep-14Last Modified: 21-Jun-14



Address:
NO -78,1ST CROSS NEAR RAHEJA RESIDENCY,
1ST BLOCK, KORAMANGLA
BANAGLORE-560034
INDIA

Contact:
+91- 9972014986

E-Mail: 
chatenlohani@outlook.com
 PERSONAL DATA:                            
Date of Birth: 
28th, June 1989
                                    
Gender: Male
Nationality: Indian
 Marital Status: Single

Languages Known:
English, Hindi

Current Location:
Bangalore
   
Academic Qualification



DEGREE

INSTITUTE
YEAR OF PASSING
PERCENTAGE




















B.TECH

UKTU
2011
64.46


















XII



Uttaranchal Board
2006
72


















X

Uttaranchal Board
2004
68.83








Technical skills         

    Languages/Methodologies 


J2SE , J2EE,  C,  C++, Python,   HTML, 
CSS, JAVASCRIPT





    
    Framework

HIBERNAT,  struts ,  spring



    Database
	
MySQL , Oracle 10g, MongoDB



  
   Operating System

                 
 LINUX , WINDOWS


 
    Big Data Technology

HADOOP,PIG,HIVE





Work Experience:
1.Organization: Macro InfoTech Pvt lmt.

Tenure:  September 2011-May 2012

Location: Dehradun

Designation: Database Administrator



2.Organization:R V Solution  Pvt lmt
Tenure: June 2012-April 2013
Location:Noida
Designation:Software
Engineer
Project: Human resource
Management system


3.Organization: Infodart Technology india Ltd

Tenure: 20 Jan 2014-now

Location: Banagalore

Designation: Executive Software Engineer 

Project: Oracle Retail



Other Technical skills         
*Excellent knowledge of Datastructure and algorithms
*Knowledge of big data technology
*Knowledge of Artificial Intelligence


Training and Achievement     
* Oracle certified java professional 6
* Successfully completed the 2 months Industry training with Century Pulp and paper in                  “Study of electronic instrument and control system “.
*Successfully completed an academic project on “ development of Self balancing robot“


Self Projects    
Project:  Online Reminder 
Languages: Struts 2 , JDBC,  JSP,  MySQL, JavaScript, CSS

Roles and Responsibility: Designed and Deployment of project 

Description: Online reminder is a web base application. It provides functionality of creating and  editing Reminder list, sending reminders to registered persons through email and SMS. 



Project: Content Management System

Language: PHP,  MySQL ,  HTML , CSS, JQUERY

Roles and Responsibility: Designed and Deployment of project

Description: : Design content management system for  secc (Social economic cast census)  project. Goal of this project is to view, modify and filter census data
and keep track of the survey progress.
.
Debabrata 
 
B.Tech (CSE) from BPUT with 76% marks, having 3 months of exp in Python and its framework cherry py and MySql ,web Technologies (HTML, JavaScript)
 
 
• Current Designation: Trainee
• Current Company: Textual Analytics Solutions
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Anywhere in South India
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: Fresher/Trainee
• Date of Birth / Gender: 20 Jun 1992 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 3 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.40 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7204562140Verified
 
• Email: debabrata9207@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Shuchaye Building #459, Chansandra, Kadugodi,
Bangalore, Karnataka, pin- 560067, Bengaluru - 560067
 
• Key Skills: Core JAVA,JDBC, SERVLETS, JSP, J2EE , C, C++, Data Structures., Hibernate , JPA ,struts ,HTML 5, JAVASCRIPT, Oracle (SQL/PLSQL),Eclipse, Dreamweaver ,Tomcat,Python,Cherry Py,Shelves
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 1a37852a6cf3fc7309Last Active: 13-Oct-14Last Modified: 13-Oct-14


Debabrata
Mobile. :   +91-7204562140
E-Mail   :  debabrata9207@gmail.com


OBJECTIVE:   To pursue a challenging career in a leading and progressive research organization offering
                  	Opportunities to utilize my expertise & experience gained in this field to develop complex
                  	Project with efficiency and quality.

SUMMARY:
• 3 Months of experience specified to Python Technologies.
• Excellent code development skills using  Python and is Framwork Cheery py and Cgi Scripting 
• Having knowledge in Java development skills using  J2SE, J2EE and Framework(Hibernate 3.x and Collection) .
• Database development skills using SQL and PL/SQL 
• Having Knowledge in Html, JavaScript
• Keen learner with constant zest to develop new skills.

ACADEMIC:

Qualification
Institute/School
Board/University
Year of Completion 
   Percentage


B.Tech (CSE)    
Trident Academy of Technology, Bhubaneswar

BPUT, Odisha

2013

76%     

XII  

Ispat Vidyamandir,Sector-19

CHSE, Odisha

2009

70%    

X

Ispat Vidyalaya,Sector-18

BSE, Odisha

2007     

76.4%

PROFESSIONAL SUMMERY:
• Currently working with Textual Analytics Solutions, Bangalore as Trainee  from July 2014 onwards.
• Textual Analytics Solutions is a leading Software solution provider based at Bangalore (India). It provides complete solutions to the  clients including development and Inforamtion Processing and Automation 

CURRENT PROJECT:
Title			: BDS
Role			: Team Member	
Environment		: Python 2.7
Technology		: Python Cgi , Cherry py
Database		: MySQl
Team size		: 8
					          
DESCRIPTION: 
Providing  all information extracted from  files and enclosing it in a XML files for each client/Person  bought Share of a company and register with  Bundesanzeiger and sending those file to Bundesanzeiger for further verifivcation

ROLES & RESPONSIBILITES:
• Designed web pages using HTML and Java Scritpt 
• Devloping Cheery py service for providing automation Support to Analysts During Processing.
• Debugging and deffect fixing.

ACADEMIC PROJECT DETAILS
PROJECT-I
               Project Name (Major)			: Social Networking Site named ‘FRIENDSTAR’
             Team Size			: 4
             Languages Used			: JDBC, SERVLETS, JSP, CSS, HTML, JAVA SCRIPT, ORACLE

DESCRIPTION:
This project focuses on creation of a dynamic website in which people from different age group can make friends ,message one another ,share photos & videos .Beside that they can play Flash games like stick cricket , Bomerman and also able to text their friends.

RESPONSIBILITIES:
• Responsibilities Involved in designing.
• Involved in preparing test plan.
• Involved in documentation.

PROJECT-II
Project Name (Minor)		: Custom Notepad named “MyEditor” 
Languages Used			: JAVA 

DESCRIPTION:
This project focuses on creation of Custom notepad whose functionality is similar to Notepad, i.e. it has functionality like open document of .txt, edit, save, find, replace. This project is developed using java swing.  

RESPONSIBILITIES:
• Involved in designing coding and Test Case generation.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Languages		: 	JAVA, Python , C, C++, 
Technologies		: 	JDBC, SERVLETS, JSP, J2EE
Frameworks		: 	Hibernate 3.x, Collection,Cheery Py 
IDEs			: 	Eclipse, Dreamweaver
Web server		:	Tomcat 6.x 
Databases		:	Oracle (SQL/PLSQL) 10g, MySQL
Web Technologies	:	HTML 5, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery
Operating Systems	:	Windows-XP, Windows 7.Linux
ORACLE Skills:
• Proficiency in writing SQL (Joins, Subquery, Functions ,OLAP, Analytic Function,).
• Good knowledge in PL/SQL (Control Structure, Cursor, Exception Handling, Triggers, Stored Procedure).
• Sound knowledge in object oriented table and partition table , OLAP and Analytic Function
• Self-learning, Customer oriented view.
JAVA Skills:
• Good Understanding of Core Java(Oops Concepts, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection f/w)
• Programming Experience in performing database operations using Hibernate and JDBC.
• Programming experience in J2EE (Servlets, JSPs, JDBC) and Custom Exception.
• Sound knowledge in implementation of Layer Architecture and Design Pattern(Singleton & Factory Method) using Java.
Web-Technology Skills:

• Good Understanding of HTML and CSS and their integration,
• Web Development experience in integration of (JSP and HTML).
• Ability to write JavaScript code and use Predefined method of JQuery to enhance the functionality of Web page.
PERSONAL DETAILS
       Date of Birth		:	20-06-1992
       Name	                          	:	Debabrata Pati
       Gender			:	Male
       Language Known	:	Oriya, Hindi, English
       Current Address		:	Shuchaye Building #282, Chansandra, Kadugodi,
       Bangalore, Karnataka, pin- 560067
DECLARATION
Considering my above stated credentials, I am confident of my abilities and will prove my best in discharge of my responsibilities. I hereby declare that all the information furnished above are true to the best of my knowledge.
Place: BANGALORE                                                                                                                               
Date:                                                     	   	
         								Debabrata 
 Deepak 
 
Deepak 1year7months Exp in Java Development
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Developer
• Current Company: Mathim Solution Pvt Ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 20 Aug 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 7 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9945339643Verified
 
• Email: deeypak@gmail.com Verified ,
deejet123@gmail.com
• Address: #210 virupaksheshwara engg works,subbhianapalya extn,m.s nagara post,sangoolirayanna road,bangalore=33, Bangalore - 560033
 
• Key Skills: java,j2ee,hibernate,struts2,spring mvc,jquery,javascript,mysql,oracle11g,ajax,xml,node.js,html,html5,webrtc.
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 78a8c1a13f0aa79040Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Oct-14
    Deepak Y
deejet123@gmail.com						   Ph:-9945339643

Primary Skill sets :-

• Have good knowledge and hands on experience in Java Programming.
• Good Knowledge in Core Java/j2ee and frameworks like Struts2,Hibernate,Spring-mvc.
• Have good understanding on Oracle and MySQL.
• Have good knowledge on JAVASCRIPT,JQUERY,XML,JSP,HTML,HTML5,CSS,NODE.JS.
• Have work on experience with Java Api's,Ajax,WebRTC.
• Have work on experience with Apache Tomcat7.
• Have work exp on writing Sql queries.
• Have good understanding on Networking concepts and Networking Protocols.
• Have Good Knowledge and Hands on experience on Ubuntu operating System.
• Good understanding of Project Development Life cycle. 

Secondary Skill sets:-

• Have good understanding on Server and storage domain technologies and Networking technologies.
• Have good hands on experience on Linux/Ubuntu Commands.

 Trainings:-

• Completed Java training in Jspider,basavagudi,Bangalore.
• Completed MNA(Master in network administration) course  from Jet king,Whitefield,Bangalore.

Professional Summary:-
Brief Profile
• Get along well with people and an effective team player
• Goal directed personality with eagerness to learn new things.
• Good communication and presentation skills.
Company
Mathim Solutions Pvt Ltd.
Total Experience
1 year, 7 months
Designation 
Software Developer
Operating System
Ubuntu/Linux
Languages
Java/J2ee,Jsp,Servlets
Database
MySQL,Oracle 11g
Web Technologies
HTML,HTML5, XML, CSS, JavaScript,Jquery,Ajax,Node.js
Frameworks
Hibernate,Struts2
Tools
Eclipse Juno


Educational Qualification:- 
July 2012 Completed B.E (Information Science) at Atria Institute of Technology (Visvesvaraya Technological University),Hebbal, Bangalore.
June 2008 Completed Dip in Computer science at T.E.S Polytechnic(DTE),R M nagar,Bangalore.
June 2005 Completed S.S.L.C at J.P.H.S ,Bangalore.


Academic Projects :-

1. Congestion Avoidance and Mitigation of WSN’S.

Description

In this project we use the multi path routing mechanism that aims to achieve higher reliability and load balancing in WSN.the framework for the project is being developed into Java where the network model is deployed and algorithm is implemented. The network model assumes equal number of sensors in every node and of same type of sensors. And finally congestion detection, congestion notification and multi path rate control based protocol is implemented to experiment the model. in this project, it propose about an efficient scheme to control multi path congestion so that the sink can get priority based throughput for heterogeneous data.it has used packet service ratio for detecting congestion as well as performed hop-by-hop multi path congestion control based on that metric.finally,simulation results have demonstrated the effectiveness of our proposed approach. .

Operating System(s)
Windows
Client
None
Contribution
1. Preparing the project synopsis and collecting project requirements.
2. Design the project modules.

3. Had played a significant role in the documentation of the project.
4. Prepared and given presentation of the project.
Start Date
Jan 11th 2012
End Date
May 3rd 2012
Period
4 months
Team Size
3











Current Working Projects:- 


1.On-line application for site allotment .

Description
 On-line Site Allotment is web based system to computerize the site allotment process of Urban Development Authorities. The system allows us to maintain all masters of notification, layout, sites, site rates, penalties etc; citizens to participate on-line and officials to manage whole process from notification till the end allotment transparently according to the defined set of rules. It will also give instantaneous reports to administrations.Different states/authorities have different work flows & rules for allotment of sites, auctioning of sites, properties. Hence On-line Site allotment is a solution which can be customized for different implementations.
Role
Java Developer
Operating System(s)
Ubuntu/Linux
Client
State Govt of Karnataka.
Technologies used
Java,Struts2,Hibernate,Oracle11g,Apache-tomcat.
Contribution
Involved in independently developing application from end to end of the project.



2.School Management System .

Description
eSchool is a school management system which creates a unified platform bringing together various users within a school environment. eSchool access levels for administrators, teachers, 
clerical staff, parents and students.
An eSchool, school management system that facilitates the
daily activities within a school.
Helps to efficiently maintain the data of school authorities, staff
members,parents and students.

Role
Java Developer
Operating System(s)
Ubuntu/Linux
Client
Private School.
Technologies used
Java,Spring-mvc,Hibernate,Mysql-5.5,Apache-tomcat.
Contribution
Involved in independently developing parts of  application for the project.







Personal Details:

Date of Birth
20-08-1989
Gender
Male
Nationality
INDIAN
Marital Status
Single
Languages Known
English,Kannada,Tamil,Telugu,Hindi.
Hobbies
Checking and getting info about new websites,attending exhibitions and conference ,seminars.



Date:17-10-2014		                     					(Deepak.y)
Place:Bangalore								 
Bottom of Form











Devesh kumar mishra 
 
Java,J2ee,struts hibernate Developer
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: SAGACIOUS INFO SYSTEMS PVT LTD
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Delhi / NCR,Pune
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 02 Jul 1985 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 11 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.60 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: MCA [Computers]
• Phone: 7406640108Verified
 
• Email: deveshsmart17@gmail.com Verified
• Address: INDIRA NAGAR GORAKHPUR, gorakhpur - 273001
 
• Key Skills: JAVA(Core+Advance+J2ee(SERVLET, JSP ,EJB)),Framework(STRUTS,HIBERNATE),HTML , CSS,JAVASCRIPT,AJAX,JQUERY

MYSQL,Oracle 9i,10g
WINDOWS XP, SEVEN
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 614531ee40e28c9a75Last Active: 23-Sep-14Last Modified: 12-Sep-14

Devesh Mishra                  

                                                                 Email:  deveshsmart17@gmail.com
                                                                           Mobile: +91-7406640108
____________________________________________________________________________

Professional Summary:
➢ Having 2.10 years of IT Experience and Expertise in Java, J2EE and Java Framework Software 
➢ Extensive Experience in Development of Web based Applications by using JSP, Struts, Hibernate 
➢ Experience in deploying applications using Tomcat, Glassfish and Weblogic servers. 
➢ Hands on Experience in using Frameworks Struts and Hibernate 
➢ Ability to implement Design Patterns.
➢ Experience in working with MyEclipse IDE
➢ Good Exposure to implement MVC2 Architecture Applications.
➢ A very good Team player with excellent Communication, Interpersonal and Analytical skills.
➢ Always  Willing  to learn new Technologies

Experience Profile:		
➢ Working as Software Developer for Sagacious InfoSystems from October 2011 to till date.
Technical Profile:	
Programming Languages		:		JAVA
Operating Systems		:   		Windows XP, windows 7
Database Softwares		:		Oracle 10G, MySql
Web Technologies		:		HTML, JavaScript,JQuery,AJAX
J2SE Technologies		:		JDBC
J2EE Technologies		:		Servlet, JSP
Frameworks			:		Struts 1.x/2.x
ORM Tools			:		Hibernate 
Servers			:		Tomcat, Weblogic, GlashFish
IDE			:		My Eclipse, NetBeans
Environmental Tools		:		Log4j, JUnit, Ant

Academic Profile:

• Java Certified from  DUCAT  NOIDA Delhi.
• MCA  From  Institute Of Technology And Management ,Gorakhpur,UP ( 2011).
• M.SC(MATHS) From DeenDayal Upadhayay University Gorakhpur,UP( 2007).
• BSc in Mathematics  From DeenDayal Upadhayay University Gorakhpur,UP (2005).
• +2 Science from B.R.D INTER College, Deoria,UP ( 2002).
• 10th Science from S.R.J INTER College, Deoria,UP ( 2000).



Project #1   Automation of Bank services

Customer         : Valley National Bank ,Wayne ,New Jersey
Organization    : Sagacious Infosystems
Role                 :  Software Developer 
Environment    : Java6,  Struts 2, Hibernate 3.2.5, Weblogic Server 10.3, Oracle10g, 
                          MyEclipse 10.0 ,Ajax,JavaScript ,JQuery ,JUnit 4,HTML
 
Description    : This  Product is web enabled application, which is Customer based to provide the information for the customers can enjoy operating their account sitting in their homes .It allows us to pay the bills to the Billers. Totally compressive, yet customizable by each and every user, bill pay  and funds transfer  thorough Net advantage providers the convenient ,accessibility ,reliability and security demanded by today’s banking customer.
Responsibilities:
• Understanding the business requirement for database and application design and development
• Developing front-end screens in JSP and HTML
• Client side validation using Java Script
• Database connectivity for applications using Hibernate
•        Embedding business logic in Action classes
• Using Back end tools such as SQL Plus in Oracle 10g


Project #2     InsigneWorld
Customer         : OnMobile Global Limited, USA
Organization    : Sagacious Infosystems
Role                 :  Software Developer 
Environment    : Java6, J2EE, Struts 2, Hibernate3.2.5,Weblogic Server10.3, Oracle10g, 
                          MyEclipse8.1, Ajax,JavaScript ,JQuery ,JUnit 4,HTML



Description    : This project ‘Insigne World’ is an online website in which users can search the information about people and company though out the world. This project is providing detail      information  about the company and people their addresses, contact numbers, stock value of company and many more information. It provides  the close competitors of company and their details  also. Our security check programs make the project more secure and useful by providing the multiple login security and bounding the user for definite number of emails in an hour.

Responsibilities:
➢ Involved in the development of different modules and tiers.
➢ Took active participation in performance tuning in hibernate. 
➢ Involved developing views and  Form beans using Struts Framework
	

Project #3     EyesOnEmails
Customer         : OnMobile Global Limited, USA
Organization    : Sagacious Infosystems
Role                 :  Software Developer 
         Environment    : Java6, J2EE, Struts 2, Hibernate3.2.5,Weblogic Server10.3, Oracle10g,                        
                          MyEclipse8.1 Ajax,JavaScript ,JQuery ,JUnit 4,HTML

Description    : The project  ‘Eyes On Emails’ is a web based program that instantly verifies  the 
email and bulk of emails also. Through this project users can validate and verify the email addresses and check for valid and invalid emails and short the useful emails. Our security check programs make the project more secure and useful by providing the multiple login security and bounding the user for 10 emails in an hour.
Responsibilities:
➢ Involved in the development of different modules and tiers.
➢ Took active participation in performance tuning in hibernate. 
➢ Involved developing views and  Form beans using Struts Framework




Personal Profile:

Full Name		:         Devesh Mishra
Language Known	:          English, Hindi 
Date of Birth		:          2nd July, 1985

Nationality      		:          Indian



Declaration : 
      I hereby declare that the above information furnished is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

Date:


Place: Bangalore					                                              Signature
		
Gagan.C. 
 
Software Engineer at GiLUXE Pvt Ltd With 2 years experience in software development. Good development experience in Web development, iOS development and Java programming.
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: GiLUXE India Pvt Ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Chennai,Anywhere in South India
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 19 May 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 0 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: More than 3 Months
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 8792691261
 
• Email: gagan.globin76@gmail.com Verified
• Address: #40 kasturi Nilaya, oppt MGM apartment,abbainaidu studio road,chikkalsandra,bangalore, Bangalore - 560061
 
• Key Skills: JAVA/J2EE Programming, iOS Development, HTML5, Bootstrap 3 framework, JavaScript, Basics of PHP, Web Development, CMS(Drupal)
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 15e597cd5e0eeca774Last Active: 16-Oct-14Last Modified: 5-Sep-14

GAGAN .C. 
# 40, Kasturi Nilaya,					                                                                                       
Oppt MGM apartment,
Abbainaidu studio road,
Chikkalsandra,                                                                           Contact number : +91 8792691261
Bangalore 560061					       Email id : gagan.globin76@gmail.com
 
 CAREER OBJECTIVE: 
 	         To seek a challenging position where I can effectively contribute my skills and abilities for the growth of the organization and myself.
						
 ACADEMIC PROFILE:

 Discipline/
 Specialization
 School/college
 Board/
 University
 Year of study
  %
 
B.E (Computer Science and Engineering).
Jaya Engineering 
College, Chennai.

Anna university

2008-2012
7.01 cgpa

HSC

Govt B Hr Sec School,
Ponnai. Vellore dist. 
Tamil Nadu  State
Board

2008
84.66 %
SSLC
Govt  Hr Sec School,
Ponnai. Vellore dist.
Tamil Nadu State
Board
2006
76.4 %

 ACADEMIC PROJECT UNDERTAKEN:

Title            : QUET MUSIC PLAYER – PLAYLIST SHARING
 
Description   : To create a music player for Linux with some additional features like Foot notes generation, Playlist sharing and Online music services support for music player. Playdar HTTP API can be provided for Quet music player which can be act as music content resolver service. When the user imports the playlist it can be converted as URL that can be share with online friends via chat.

Technologies 
      
       Operating system		 : Linux
       Developed environment	              : Qt/KDE 
       Front end 			 : Qt programming 
       Languages			 : C++
CAREER SUMMARY:

• Around 1 year 8 months of experience in IT Industry.

• Overall exposure of Core Java, Advanced java technologies, Web development,  iOS development.

• Good command over Web Technologies and Content Management System (Drupal, Joomla, Wordpress ).

• Familiar with Agile Scrum software development methodology.

• Exceptionally well organized, high initiative, strong work ethic and a willingness to work hard to achieve employer’s confidence and objective.

• Presented a Free Software Demo on the topic DRUPAL in Carte Blanche 2011 at MIT, Chennai.

• Participated in PROGRAMMING event in the National Level Technical Symposium “Paradigm” SSN College of Engineering, Chennai


PROFESSIONAL WORKING EXPERIENCE DETAILS:

➢ Software Engineer at GiLUXE India Pvt Ltd, Bangalore.

Currently working in GiLUXE India Pvt Ltd from April 2013 till Date and current designation “Software Engineer”.

➢ Trainee Software Engineer at Gowdanar Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore.

Worked with Gowdanar Technologies Pvt Ltd from October 2012 to March 2013 as Trainee Software Engineer. 

PROJECT PROFILE:

➢ G-SMART 

Client         
Gowdanar Technologies - Product Development 
Technologies Used 
Java script, HTML, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet, Core Java, SQL
Operating System 
Windows XP
Tools
Spring Source Tool Suite, Eclipse IDE, SVN
Data Base 
DB2
Team Size 
15
Duration
February 2012 to March 2013

G-Smart is an enterprise solution for the small and mid sized IT companies, which enables organization to achieve world class performance by aligning the right information and resources to strategic objectives.
G-Smart offers solutions for every budget and every phase of the organization process, helping HR, Finance, projects and Training to formulate strategies for profitable growth and actively monitor day-to-day operations.

ROLES AND RESPONSIBLITIES:
• Development and Testing of the Registration module.
In this module, it has been basically designed to register any new user in their respective organization after his/her joining.

➢ GiLUXE CORPORATE WEB APPLICATION :

Client         
GiLUXE India Pvt Ltd
Technologies Used 
HTML5, Twitter Bootstrap 3 framework, Java script, CSS, jQuery, RWD
Operating System 
Linux Ubuntu, Windows, Mobile Operating Systems
Tools
Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamviewer 
Website 
www.giluxe.com
Team Size 
4
Duration
January 2014 to April 2014  

➢ GHIARONI & MUSIANI INC :
Client         
Ghiaroni & Musiani Inc ( A leading full-service consulting firm specializing in public relations. )
Technologies Used 
Drupal 7, Responsive Web Design, HTML, CSS, Java Script, PHP, jQuery
Operating System 
Linux Ubuntu, Windows, Mobile Operating Systems
Tools
Adobe Photoshop, Aptana Studio 3 
Website 
www.gerberpineda.com/drupal/
Team Size 
4
Duration
September 2013 to November 2013 

ROLES AND RESPONSIBLITIES:
• Developing responsive drupal 7 theme for Ghiaroni & Musiani Inc corporate web application with drupal theme guidelines.
• Structuring the drupal website with content and testing the web applications with various devices (Desktops, Laptops, Mobiles).
➢ RECIPES COOKING GUIDE : iPHONE APP
Client         
GiLUXE India Pvt Ltd
Technologies Used 
iOS6, iOS7, Objective C
Operating System 
MAC OS X 10.9.3
Tools
XCODE 5.1
Team Size 
2
Duration
April 2014 to Till Date 

PRODUCT DESCRIPTION:
		
		Recipes cooking guide will make easy to explore and cook complicated meals with step by step guidance from start to finish. Cook with confidence! Just choose your recipe from recipes list and decide how many people you are going to serve. From there, recipes cooking guide organize the preparation instructions for the entire meal and gives you easy step by step guidance, while you are cooking. Recipes cooking guide app will provides list of recipes with cooking time, ingredients, steps to make (directions) and nutrition facts.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBLITIES:
• Developer
• Developing application using Objective-C and Involving UI design
• Upgrading with new technical skills required in this project

 TECHNICAL SKILLS:

           Languages		:   Core Java, J2EE, Objective C
           IDE Tools                     :   Eclipse, XCODE 5.1, Adobe Dreamviewer
           Operating System	:   Windows, Ubuntu, Redhat, Fedora, Mac OS X
           Database		:   MySQL, COUCHBASE (NoSql)
           Packages		:   MS Office, Open office, Libre, Adobe Photoshop, Gimp
           Web Technologies        :   HTML5, CSS, Java script, Basics of PHP, XML, Bootstrap 3
           Virtualization               :   Open source Virtualization tools
           Server                           :   Apache Tomcat, LAMP, NGINX
           CMS Technologies       :   Drupal, Joomla                       
 
 AREA OF INTEREST:
                 
➢ Free Open Source Software.
➢ Web Technologies.
➢ Core Java/ J2EE
➢ Object Oriented  Programming
➢ iOS Application Development 
 PERSONAL SKILLS:
                 
➢ Willingness to Learn.
➢ Good Team Player
➢ Positive attitude
➢ Good analytical skills

 PERSONAL DETAILS:

Name                             :  Gagan C
Father’s Name               :  Mr.P Chandra Sekar Naidu 
Mother’s Name	   :  Mrs.P Amulu Chandrasekar
Marital Status                :  Unmarried
Date of Birth	               :  19 may 1990
Gender    	               :  Male
Nationality	               :  Indian
Language Known           :  English, Telugu, Tamil, Kannada
Interests                          :  Blogging, Web Designing, Playing Cricket and Table Tennis 
Permanent Address         :  3/16, Krishnar kovil street, Godavaripalli village,
                                           Ponnai post- 632514. Vellore dist, Tamil Nadu.

                                 
 DECLARATION

       I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.                            



Place:   Bangalore                                                                                                           (GAGAN C)
Date   :    




RESUME
HARISH.N                                                                                                                  
                                                                                               
Phone:      9886920169
Email:   n_harish1@yahoo.co.in
              n.harish@gmail.com
__________________________________________________________                                                         
Objective
To acquire a challenging position in the organization that suits my strong technical expertise and gives me an opportunity for professional growth.

Work Experience:
   Currently employed in INFOSYS TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED, Bangalore as Technology Lead from June 2004 with 5.5 years of experience in design, analysis and development primarily in Oracle Products (OMS/OSM, ASAP, Objectel, UIM), Java and Web related Technologies. Have experience working at client location for a UK telecom company for a period of 9 months. Also have sufficient knowledge in telecom domain (OSS/BSS) & Wireless domain.

Skill Set:
Programming Language:           Java,SQL, JSP, Struts, and Web Services.
Products                           :          OMS/OSM, Objectel, ASAP, UIM.                     	
Databases                         : 		      Oracle.
Web Technologies	      :           XML, HTML, XSL. 
Version control tools       :          VSS, CVS.
Operating System            :	     Windows, UNIX.

Education:
     Passed B.E (E&C) from Bangalore Institute of Technology, Bangalore in the year 2003 with an aggregate of 81.92%. 

Professional Experience:

1) Environment: Java, JSP, Oracle, HTML

   Job Description: Designing of a Web based Provisioning Order Status Tracking Portal
   for a Puerto Rican based Telecom company.

This project involved the designing of a Web Portal using Java, JSP and Oracle deployed on Tomcat server. The client requirement was a portal wherein their enterprise customers can check the up-to-date status of the provisioning orders that have been placed by them for the service to be provided by the client. This portal will enable the enterprise clients to check the status of orders using internet in real time thus reducing the number of support calls for the client.
 I was involved in the Detailed Design, Development wherein I wrote code for interaction between Java and Oracle and also was involved in developing the front end of the project which was done using JSP. Java Beans was written for back-end processing and JDBC was used to establish the database connectivity.


     
2) Environment: Java, Eclipse, Weblogic 7.1, OMS.

Job Description: Upstream automation interface for an Order Management System for a UK based Telecom Company.

  There was a requirement from the client to automate the order sending process from an upstream system to an Order Management System.. There is a JMS queue which waits for a request from middleware, as soon as a request is encountered a MDB is called which in turn internally calls OMS API’s to create order. Thus the order can be seen in OMS. The order thus generated is then submitted to ASAP and the response is sent back via a JMS queue.

I had worked as a developer which involved analysis, detailed design and unit testing and integration testing where in I wrote the code for developing the interface and subsequently automating all the flows.

     
3) Environment: OMS, ASAP, Objectel, Java

Job Description: Provisioning of IPVPN Activation System for a UK based telecom Company.

This project provides a scalable, multi-user system that allows IP-VPN activation across a network of Cisco MPLS (Multi Protocol Label Switching) enabled routers. 
The system is based on three of Metasolv components OMS, ASAP and Objectel, with database functionality supplied by Metasolv Objectel. 
       This provides an end-to-end solution wherein the user places and order, which the OMS processes and passes it to ASAP, which configures the router, and then the results are updated in Objectel. 

I was involved in the OMS, ASAP part on the UNIX environment, which involved designing of workflows and views. It also involved working on Java Plugins which are used to do some automated tasks. I have also worked extensively in the integration of all these components. My responsibilities as a lead involve a seam less management between my team and the management. Delivering the work on time with least number of defects has been one of the biggest challenges in which we have succeeded to a greater extent. 

I was at the client location for a period of 9 months from August 2006 - May 2007 during which I was handling various roles like onsite co-ordination, interaction with client for requirements gathering, organizing meetings, and arranging daily scrum calls. Also have considerable amount of experience in Agile methodology of working.      
4) Environment: OSM, ASAP, UIM, Java

Job Description: End to End Telecom Lab using Oracle suite of Products.

This project involves designing an E2E telco lab which would be helpful to realize the E2E scenarios in an OSS/BSS stack using Oracle suite of products.  

My role    : Working as a Tech lead. My responsibility includes designing the fulfillment area of work. High level designing, requirements gathering were also the part of my job. My responsibilities as a lead were to ensure that the module is delivered on time with the highest quality. My responsibilities also include estimating the time required to complete a certain piece of work. I also interact with potential clients to showcase our product and the scenarios developed in the lab.


Personal Traits:
Adept in analyzing information system needs, evaluating end-user requirements.
Quick learner, with an ability to rapidly achieve organizational integration, assimilate job requirements and employ new ideas, concepts, methods and technologies
Excellent communication, interpersonal, intuitive, analysis and technical skills.

Hobbies:  Listening to music, Travelling, Quizzing.

Spoken Languages: English, Hindi, Kannada, and Tamil


Harshal Chourasia 
 
junior software engineer in S S R Infocom Pvt. Ltd..
 
 
• Current Designation: junior software enginner
• Current Company: S S R Infocom Pvt. Ltd
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai
• Functional Area: IT Software - Other
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 13 May 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 1 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.05 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Electronics/Telecommunication]
• Phone: 8722839357Verified
 
• Email: chourasiaharshal@gmail.com Verified
• Address: S.L.N Men's Accomodation
Roopena Agrahara, Bangalore - 560068
 
• Key Skills: C, C++, Core Java, Multithreading, Spring, Script, jQuery, My SQL, Manual Testing, .NET,Ruby, HTML, WebServices, JSF, JMS, EJB, Web logic
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 716b104e31ae37a116Last Active: 14-Oct-14Last Modified: 14-Oct-14

	

HARSHAL    CHOURASIA			                       E-Mail:   chourasiaharshal@gmail.com

                                                                                     Contact no:+91-8722839357                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       

Seeking challenging assignments in the field of Software Development with an organisation 
Professional Experience
Having 1.1+ Year of experience in java in  S S R Infocom Pvt. Ltd From   Sep2013 to till now, have been involved in Designing and development of application Development.

➢ Working as a Software Trainee with S S R Infocom Pvt. Ltd.  from  (1st   sep -2013 to 1st – march-2013)-6 month        

Professional Summery
• Knowledge of OOPS, java.
• Knowledge of J2EE (Struts 2.0, JSP).
• Participation in developing web modules as well as designing database.
• Knowledge in SQL queries.

Skill Set

• Languages	                                             :    C,  Core Java, J2EE, Struts 2.0, JSP, Springs.
• Database 				:     Oracle 11g, SQL Server, Hadoop 
• Framework Known			:     Struts2.0
• IDE			                   		:     My Eclipse 8.5, 
• Operating Systems		             	:     Linux, Windows 8, Window 7
           
Academic Credential

• Bachelor of Engineering (ECE)– 73%
o 2013, College of Science & Technology, Bhopal
• Higher Secondary (12th) –  75% 
o 2009, Public Royal School Bhopal.
• High School (10th) – 70 %
o 2007, K V No1 Bhopal . C.B.S.E
• 6 Month industrial training of Core Java, Advance Java from Lara technology Bangalore




Professional Project Undertaken 
Project—1:
Project Name:
LMS
Client
Talent India (In house)
Team Size
5
Environment
(with skill versions)
Languages: 
jdk1.6, Jsp,Servlet,Struts 2.0, Java Script, Ajax, Tomcat6.0.
 

Database :
MySql5.0  

IDE :
My Eclipse 8.5

O/s :
Windows 7
Role in the Project    
:  I have done MASTER module.
:  Involved in developing the JSP pages.
:  Involved in developing Business components layer .
Project Description:
A learning management system (LMS) is a software application for the  administration, documentation, tracking, and reporting of training programs classrooms and online events e-learning programs and training  contents.
Declaration:
C. R. Products is an Invoice Management System. It removes the creating invoice of a company through manually or Type writer. This project is capable to Login Authenticate, Create Party, Create Item, Create Invoice, and Generate Reports like (Transport Copy and Original Copy) and manage it. 


                                                        PERSONAL PROFILE
        
       Father’s Name	:      Mr. B.D chourasia
       Date of Birth		:      13-05-1991
       Hobbies 		:      Social service, Listening music, Swimming.
       Strength		:      Patient And Behaviour
       Address		:     152/1 S.L.N. men’s hostel, 1st main 2nd cross
                                                  rupeen agrahara, Banglore 560068
	                     
  DECLARATION
 I hereby declare that the above mentioned information is correct to my knowledge and I
       bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above mentioned particulars.




Place :- Bangalore

							                                                 

  Date                                                                                                                                          Harshal Chourasia
Iftequar Ahmed Khan R 
 
B.E (CS), Corporate Java Trainer,
ORACLE Certified Professional Java SE 6 Programmer (formerly SCJP)
 
 
• Current Designation: Java Trainer
• Current Company: Sysinnova Talent
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai,Mysore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Trainer/Faculty
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 07 Feb 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 3 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9902639817Verified
 
• Email: iftequar.ahmedkhan@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Bangalore - 560084
 
• Key Skills: Corporate Java Trainer. I have trained both freshers and experienced people(who have more than 12 years of experience). I have also trained Intuit, CSC and Tomax India Private Limited employees.
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 28be21f7167ba7f916Last Active: 10-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Sep-14


Iftequar Ahmed Khan R
Mobile: 9902639817
e-mail: iftequar.ahmedkhan@gmail.com


Career Objective: To carve a niche for myself in the field of Information Technology, with zeal to work towards the augmentation of organization and self.


Professional Experience

• Currently working as Corporate - Java Trainer at Sysinnova Talent, Bangalore, since 06th June 2014. 


Professional Certification

• Passed “Java Standard Edition 6 Programmer Certified Professional Exam” (formerly SCJP) on 23rd April 2014. 


Qualification Details

• Passed B.E – Computer Science & Engineering from Alpha College of Engineering in the year 2014.
• Passed PUC (PCMC) from CMR National PU College.
• Passed SSLC from Maria Niketan High School.


Technical Knowledge

• Very good at complete core java concepts.
• Very Good at JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Struts, Spring Framework.
• HTML, CSS, SQL.


Nature of duties as Corporate –Java Trainer at Sysinnova Talent

• Train corporate employee on Java.
• I have also trained CSC employees at Chennai, Intuit and Tomax India Private employees at Sysinnova Talent, Bangalore.
• Train engineering freshers on java.




Strengths

➢ Strong Programming and Training skills.
➢ Quick Learner, Honest, Dedicated.
➢ Strong leadership qualities, with an ability to motivate teams in achieving goals.


      


Date: 

( Iftequar Ahmed Khan. R )
RESUME

JAVA Developer 
 
java and webservices
 
 
• Current Designation: AssociateSoftware Engineer
• Current Company: Cisco Systems India Private Limited
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: INDIA
• Functional Area: IT Software - System Programming
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 05 Jul 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 5 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.0 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: MCA [Computers]
• Phone: 8088691430Verified
 
• Email: ursramachandrareddy@gmail.com Verified ,
rama0706041@gmail.com
• Address: ursramachandrareddy@gmail.com, kurnool - 518124
 
• Key Skills: j2se,Jsp,Jdbc,Servlet,Hiberante,Spring(MVC,Core,Jdbc,DAO,ORM,JMS),Struts,JQuery,Ajax,Json,Webservices(Soap&restfull),Xml,JAXB,Groovy,Java Script,CSS,SQL/PLSQL,CFX,Apache Active JMS,MQ,AngularJS,JPA,
gradel,JAXRS,JAXWS,GWT
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 3a111a733985f09d91Last Active: 17-Oct-14Last Modified: 17-Oct-14


EDULA RAMACHANDRA REDDY		               
Phone   : 91-8088691430 
 ursramachandrareddy@gmail.com

 Objective:
To contribute excellent technical skills and strong involvement in reaching the company's goals in an IT consulting capacity.

 PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:

➢ Having 1.5 year of IT experience in enterprise web applications development with using J2SE, J2EE. 
➢ Good exposure to implementing OOPs and Collection Framework concepts.
➢ Experience includes application development using Core Java and server side technologies like JDBC, SERVLETS and JSP Programming. 
➢ Excellent knowledge and experience of developing applications with Model View Architecture (MVC), Struts, Spring, jstl, custom tags.
➢ Excellent knowledge and experience of developing applications with ORM tool Hibernate.
➢ Strongly initiative, creative and able to learn new technologies quickly.
➢ Having good knowledge finding bugs with using debugging. A confident and motivated person with sound technical skills with a degree of innovativeness.
➢ Worked on different real time tools like win svn,Junit,Maven.

TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:

       LANGUAGES		:  J2SE  1.7.
       Java Technologies	:  JDBC, Servlets, JSP.
       Web Technologies	:  HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, XML,Css
       FRAME WORKS		:  Hibernate, Struts, Spring,Webservies(Rest)
       DATABASES		:  Oracle-9i&10g, Mysql.
       SERVERS			:  Tomcat, Web Logic. 
TOOLS & UTILITIES	:  Eclipse, Json, Maven,SVN,Ant, Junit,Ajax.
       Operation System	:  Windows pack.Linux 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

➢ Worked as a Software Engineer at Cisco from may 2013 to  August 2014 Banglore,Karnataka.   

EDUCATION PROFILE:

➢ MCA  with 82% from Rayalaseema University,Kurnool,Andrapradesh.


Project Experience: 
                                                                                                                       May:2013 to Till
Project : 
Project Title		:    BCT (Bhehavior Change Tool)
Environment  		:J2SE,Jsp/Servlets2.5,Spring3.0(MVC),WebServices, Hiberate3.0
			 PL/SQL,html,JavaScript,CSS,,JQuery,JSON,Ajax,Eclipse,Maven
                                             Apache POI, Docx4j,SVN.
Database		:     Oracle10g.
Server			:     Web Logic,Apache Tomcat.
Platform		:     Windows XP + Windows7/8.
Team Size  	   	:     5 members.
Role               		:     Software Engineer.
Client                                 :     Cisco
Description: 
                                                              BCT tool used  to create  the CLI Data Reports for NetWork SoftwareEnginner, By using this reports NetWorkSoftware Enginner analysis the CLI data while installing the IOS software  into the Networking Routers Devices .Using BCT tool admin or user are login in to BCT tool and creating jobs,view jobs,admin able to see the users and also add the  new  image for the new build releases versions in IOS. software BCT show the created jobs between the  user-user,user-admin.Using BCT tool generating the CLI data reports in html,xsl,doc format for the modification done in the bulid releases.CLI Data reports in HTML are like the following  below.

1).An HTML-based report of the new CLI syntax in the second release.
2). An HTML-based report of the removed CLI syntax in the second release.
3). An HTML-based report of some common CLI syntax between the two releases to    
     which other CLI syntax was added or removed in the second release. 
4). A CLI fragment file from the first and second releases. 
     Show the CLI Data reports in above for format  like xsl,doc also .
 
Responsibilities:
• Understanding the requirements.
• Developing Spring Controller classes.
• Implemented Service classes and DAO classes.
• Mapping the Java objects with tables by using ORM Framework.
• Business Logic & Data Access Logic code implementation.
• Object Creation and injection is done using Spring IOC mechanism. 
• Implemented functionalities like(Spring MVC,Rest) I18N.
• Implementing JDBC Connection Polling for retrieving Connections from Oracle Database. 
• Applying the Tiles Framework  and integrating to spring environment.
• Handling the Errors & Exceptions through spring configuration file.
• Applying the Validations using annotations provided by persistence api.
• Performed Debugging and Unit Testing using Test cases.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         







Primary Skills
• Problem Analysis
• Requirement analysis and framing out the technology to be used.






Database Platforms
• MySQL,SQL
• MS Access





Technical Exposure
• Java,Servlet,JSP, Web Services
• Struts 1.1,Hibernate
• Jboss4.0.2
• WebLogi8.XX
• Tomcat 5.5
• Eclipse 3.1.xx












An accomplished Software Engineer specializining in java programming and experience in the full life cycle of the software design process including requirement definition, prototyping, proof of concept, design, interface implementation, testing and maintenance. I have interest in analyzing and debugging and willing to learn new technologies and believe that not knowing a technology is no barrier to success.

  Summary of Qualification

➢ Solid management skills, demonstrated proficiency in leading and mentoring individuals to maximize levels of productivity, while performing cohesive team environment.
➢ Analytical thinker that consistently resolves ongoing issues or defects, often called upon to consult on problems that have eluded resolution by others.
➢ Possess expertise in Java development, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs.
➢ Strong knowledge of Java ranging from core Java to advanced J2EE Technologies. 
➢ Strong knowledge of Struts framework with Hibernate.


  Professional Experience  

• Wipro Technologies                                                    June-2007 – Present   
Technical Lead                                    

Role & Contribution: Handling maintenance and development activities of OSS PM products.

Team Size : 20

Responsibilities : 1) Team management,
                             2) Co-ordination with Onsite managers/System for future requirements/Implementation.
3) Designing architect for new implementation/requirement.

Technologies used: Core Java,CORBA,web services.

Project:  OSSRC-PMS(Performance Measurement System)

Description: PMS provides the means for a user of OSS Network Explorer (ONE) or an External Management System (EMS) to manage PM measurements in the Ericsson WCDMA/LTE RAN.
Its functionality can be broken down as follows:
• It allows an OSS-RC Operator or an EMS to create, resume, suspend, delete and schedule PM measurements of any type as defined by the  Ericsson WCDMA PM feature, that is statistical, User Equipment Traffic Recording  (UETR), Cell Traffic Recording (CTR) and General Performance   Event Handling (GPEH). 
• It allows an OSS-RC Operator or an EMS to list available PM measurements of  
  any type and display and modify   their content in terms of observed   objects that  
  the measurement collects its data from, measurement name    
  and schedule etc. Observed object in this context denotes counters or   events  
  reported by specific modeled   entities of the WCDMA RAN.                                                  

                          




• It collects PM measurement data files generated by PM measurements   from NEs (RNCs, RBSs and RXIs).  
  Data is collected using the ftp protocol   or the secure-ftp protocol.

• It stores collected PM measurement data files on the OSS-RC file system  and notifies PM users such as EMS 
  and internal OSS-RC PM applications, for example Network Statistics (NWS) or Recording Events Interface 
  (REI), that PM data files were collected and/or were not collected.

• Thinkways Software Technologies (P) Ltd                                             Oct-2006 – June-2007                                      
Role :Software Engineer(Designer)

Project : SyncEazy(Data Synchronization)

The aim of the project to make the backup for all the data of a mobile phone. It’s an application that helps to retrieve the data from the server if some data lost from the device.

Backup of PIM details.
   I) PIM information basically contains contact details, calendar info, to-do etc. The user can take backup of these info from the phone to a backup system in the form of secure data transmission. So that the loss of phone / change of phone / corrupt of phone won't affect the user's personal information.   
  II) Retrieval of the PIM information from the backup system should be synchronized properly with the phone PIM information hence loss of details and duplication of details should not happen.

Technologies Used :Core Java/J2EE,XML(SyncML),JIBX1.1,JBoss4.xx application server,ejb,struts1.1,eclipse3.1.



Education and Training 

June 2004 –July 2004 	                          Cluster Solution Private Limited,
				Sec-16 Noida.


2001-2005 	Bachelor of Technology (Information technology) from Uttar Pradesh Technical University of Lucknow, SRMS College of Engg. & Technology, Bareilly          65% 
		
Studies focused on system analysis and design, logic design, computer programming, sequential logic, operating sys. Data structures, theory of automata, software planning and management.


2001	12th 	UP Board	Jain Inter College, Rampur              with Honors
	Studies focused Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, and English. 


1999	10th 	UP Board	Govt. Murtza H. S. S., Rampur      
	Studies focused on Mathematics, Science, Social Science, Hindi, and English.

Presentations & Accreditations

• Presented Seminar on Robot Sensing & Controls in 7th Semester.
• Active participation in National Level Technical Festival named as ‘TECHVYOM’. 
                                     
                 i)  Worked as a VOLUNTEER in ENGG. DRAWING CONTEST.


•  Active participation in cultural program named as ‘ZEST’ 
  
   i)   Worked as CO-CONVENOR in INFORMALS COMMITTEE.
                                  ii)  Worked as ORGANISER in PRIZE DISTRIBUTION COMMITTEE.



Declaration

I solemnly declare that the above information is true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I understand that if any information given above is found false/incorrect, my candidature is liable to be rejected




Place: Bangalore
Date  : 24/06/2011                                                                              (Kamal Kumar Kalyani)
Way we think decides what we will be






     kamal.kalyani@gmail.com	              Page 1 of 3



maktumhusen karikatti 
 
None
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Developer
• Current Company: kclink software technologies pvt ltd bangalore
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Hardware & Networking
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.10 Lac(s)
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9632571409
 
• Email: mkarikatti2@gmail.com Verified
• Address: m i karikatti
navoday nagar dharwad karnataka 580003, Dharwad - 580003
 
• Key Skills: software developer( java developer)
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 51aa81e16ad6289c48Last Active: 28-Sep-14Last Modified: 26-Sep-14
                                                                                                         
MAKTUMHUSEN KARIKATTI
Mobile (: +91-9632571409                                       E-mail  : javedkarikatti786@gmail.com

Objective:
                  Seeking a professional career to prove myself in a challenging position in the
development of software using Java and J2EE technologies, and to work hard sincerely 
with determination towards goals and objective of company.
Professional Summary:
➢ Having overall 1+ years of experience in IT industry in the areas of Coding, Implementation of projects using JAVA & J2EE Technologies.
➢ Experience in developing applications using JAVA, J2EE (Servlet, JSP, and JDBC)
➢ Have good knowledge on HTML, JavaScript.
➢ Extensive Object Oriented Development OOPS experience.
➢ Good working knowledge on Application development and maintenance life cycle process.
➢ Excellent problem solving, Analytical and communication skills.
➢ Ability to learn new Technologies.
➢ Good Team Member.

Professional Experience:
• Currently working as a Software Engineer in Kclink Software Technologies Pvt. Ltd.,  from  July 2013 to till date.

Educational Qualifications:
• Completed BE(CS) with Aggregate 60% from VTU BELGAUM. 

• 12th with 51%.from KITTEL SCIENCE COLLEGE DHARWAD.

• 10th  with 73.76 from K.E.BOARD SCHOOL DHARWAD.







Software Exposure:
      
      Programming Languages	:	Core Java, J2EE.
      Database Languages		:	MySql
      IDE’s				:	Eclipse Indigo, My Eclipse 8.6
      Web Technologies		:	HTML, JavaScript.	
      Operating Systems		:	Windows 2007/XP.
Project Profile:
PROJECT DETAILS:
Major Project: Selective Compliant Assembly Robotic Arm
                             In this project the robotic arm is interfaced with computer                                                                                                                         having a holder which can move as we move the mouse pointer on a scara drawing                            board. It works on the movement of mouse pointer and moves according to it. SCARA stand for Selective Compliant Assembly Robotic Arm. SCARA excels in “pick and place”, in its unique ability to pick up industrial components from one location and place them in another, with precision, speed, and smooth motion

 Project #1
Title		:   City Road Share
Client		:   Kclink Technologies pvt ltd.
Duration	:   Nov 2013- Till Date
Team Size        :   15
Role                  :   Developer
Environment	:   Java1.6, Struts 1.3, Hibernate3.6,JUNIT, MySql 5.x, Tomcat 6.0, Ajax, 
    Eclipse Helios.
Description:
                          Cityroadshare.com is a social networking site through which people can meet up for sharing their ride with in the city. City road share is also known as vehicle-sharing and ride-sharing. The main intention of this site is, if you have a vehicle split costs by offering vehicle pools. If you don't have a vehicle, use the system to find a vehicle pool. Through this a Ride Sharer can share his ride with Ride Seeker and Ride Seeker can share a ride with the Ride Sharer. By sharing a ride we can save gas, money and reduce auto emissions and also meet new friends. City road share’s main motto is to control Pollution, parking, traffic and road maintenance. People can share experiences as well as expenses and help each other.
                          Moderators here work hard 24/7 to provide the services and at the same time maintain the user database very securely and updating it regularly. City road share will only be used by IT/ NON-IT professional’s so as to ensure the safety and security of all the site users.
It contains three main modules Ride Sharer (provider), Ride Seeker (requestor), and administrator.

Roles & Responsibilities:
1. Team Member for the project.
2. Involved in the requirements gathering.
3. Participated in software design meetings to write technical design documents and to propose design solutions. 
4. Develop codes based on user requirements documentation
5. Developed web-based applications  using Struts.
6. Use Hibernate framework for the java objects persistence in database
7. Involved in unit testing.
8. Estimate and plan development work, report on task progress and deliver work on schedule. 

Project #2
Title		:   CarzHub
Client		:   Athena Solutions
Duration	:   After 4 months from Joining- Oct 2013
Team Size        :   10
Role                  :   Developer

Environment	:  Java1.6, Struts 1.3, Hibernate3.6,JUNIT, MySql 5.x, Tomcat 6.0, Eclipse indigo
Description:
The main intention of this web application is, it brings to you the finest car buying and selling experience at the best possible value by connecting buyers and sellers in the most convenient way with the largest inventory of used cars in a single location in India. This application has 5 modules used cars, new cars, insurance, valuation, research
Roles & Responsibilities:
1. Team Member for the project.
2. Involved in the requirements gathering.
3. Identifying and analyzing the requirements.
4. Involved in Coding and Implementation.
5. Developing the web application using struts framework.
6. Use Hibernate framework for the java objects persistence in database
7. Developing the User interfaces using JSP, Html.
8. Involved in unit testing.



Personal Details:
•  Father’s Name			:-   IMAMSAB KARIKATTI
• Permanent Address		:-   M.I.KARIKATTI
                                                                       S/O I.S.KARIKATTI
                                                                      MAHAMANE BADAVANE , NAVODAY  NAGAR     						     NEAR  KUD DHARWAD .   T &D: DHARWAD 
                                                              KARNATAKA 580003.
• Date of Birth    			:-   28Th may 1992.                         
• Language Known		:-   English , Hindi , Urdu & Kannada.                                               
• Marital Status 			:-   Single.
• Nationality/Religion		:-   Indian .

I hereby declare that above furnished details are true to the best of my knowledge and I hold myself liable for precedence, if any.



Place	:Dharwad							Yours Sincerely,
Date	:						                MAKTUMHUSEN KARIKATT
Manik Chandra 
 
MCA 87% And Java Programmer with 6 months of Experience
 
 
• Current Designation: Java Programmer
• Current Company: Tarnea Technology Solutions
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - System Programming
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 22 Aug 1991 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 0 Year(s) 6 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: MCA [Computers]
• Phone: 7411446750
 
• Email: manikmaurya791@gmail.com Verified
• Address: #23 hado siddhapura near to carmelaram post Bangalore, bengalore - 560035
 
• Key Skills: C,Java,J2EE,Spring,Hibernate,Struts and Selenium
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 08c4eda10ac3e0c451Last Active: 20-Sep-14Last Modified: 20-Sep-14

Manik Chandra                                                   Bangalore University Bangalore - India
Add- :Patar Kalan Dubar Kalan Lalganj Dist-Mirzapur Uttar Pradesh-231211                             
Email -: manikmaurya791@gmail.com
Mobile: +91 74114467504
Current Location -: Bangalore

PERSONAL DETAILS

• Father’s Name- : Rama Shanker
• Date Of Birth-: 22nd August 1991
• Linguistic Proficiency-: English,Hindi 

ACADEMIC QUALIFICATIONS

COURSE
COLLEGE/SCHOOL
BOARD/UNIVERSITY
YEAR
(%) MARKS
MCA
Krupanidhi College
Bangalore University
2014
78.00%
BCA
Integral University
Lucknow U.P.
2011
68.00%
PUC
PUC
U.P. Board
2008
62.00%
SSLC
SSLC
U.P. Board
2006
69.67%

TECHNICAL EXPOSURE
Languages-C, C++, J2SE, J2EE (Servlet, JSP).
Frameworks -Hibernate, spring and Struts.
Web Development- JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax, XML, Web Services.
Tools- SOAP UI, ANT.
IDE - Net beans, Eclipse.
Data Base –Oracle, My SQL, SQLITE
OPERATING SYSTEMS

WINDWOS, LINUX (UBUNTU).


PROJECT DETAILS

1. Title – Supply Chain Management
Company – Tarnea Technology Solutions Bangalore
Client- IMPAL AUTO PARTS
Duration – 6 Months
Team Size – 12
Role played – Java Programmer
Skills Used – JAVA, LIFERAY, MYSQL, JUNIT

2. Title - On line Shopping
Front End - JAVA
Back End - Oracle 10G
Description -The Internet has become an essential part of our daily life, and companies realize that the Internet can be a shopping channel to reach existing and potential Consumers. This project demonstrates that interactive web sites can improve sales for an organization.

3. Title - On line Music Stores
Front End - JAVA (Hibernate)
Back End - Oracle 10G
Description - The objective of this project is to design a Music store portal which enables users to browse, search, download, listen and buy the items of their choice.

WORK EXPERIENCE

I am currently working as Software Engineer (Java programmer) at Tarnea Technology Solutions which is a leaning start-up. And I have total 7 months of work experience.



AREA OF INTEREST

• Java Development
• Data Structure and algorithms
• Object Oriented Concepts

ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENTS & CO-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

1. Won 1st Prize in C coding winner in Krupanidhi College Bangalore.
2. Academic Technical Award Winner.
3. Participated in National Level IT fest (Oxford Engineering College Bangalore).
4. Participated in National Level IT fest (Krustu Jayanti College Bangalore).

                                     
DECLARATION:
 
I hereby inform that the above mentioned statements are true to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
Place: Bangalore.
Date: 								Manik Chandra


Mohd Ahamad 
 
Over 1+ years of experience in Java Technology including Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MYSQL, Oracle 10g, Swing and Spring.
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Developer
• Current Company: Orious System Pvt Ltd.
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 15 Jul 1987 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 2 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 1.30 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 7795183583Verified
 
• Email: ahamad.cs@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Vill-Golpur, Post-Kichhauchha, Dist-Ambedkarnagar, ambedkarnagar - 224155
 
• Key Skills: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, MYSQL, Oracle 10g, Swing and Spring
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 644ea5c3632318bd47Last Active: 20-Sep-14Last Modified: 20-Sep-14Report Resume
 
Jump to Section
Work Experience | Education | IT Skills | Candidate Resume
 

MOHD AHAMAD
E-mail  :  ahamad.cs@gmail.com ~ Mobile : +91-7795183583


Intend to work in a prestigious software organization which extends ample opportunities of growth and learning.
Preferable Location: Bangalore

SYNOPSIS

Over 1+ years of Experience in Java Technology and currently working in Orious System Pvt Ltd Bangalore.
⇨ Worked on the technologies like – Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Spring, Hibernate, HTML/CSS.
⇨ Endowed with a passion for winning as evinced through demonstrated excellence in the academic & extracurricular areas.
⇨ An experienced team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills who has the ability to work independently under pressure can lead, motivate and influence others and can train and mentor subordinates.

Professional Experience

Project 1:
Project Name : “Event Management System”
Task : An online portal for an event where the users can register themselves and can check the status and
		 news related to that event.
Team Member : 2
Technology Used : JSP, Servlets, Oracle 10g, CSS, Javascript.
Software :  Eclipse Kepler, Oracle 10g.

Project 2:
Task : Worked on the support and implementation on Claim Generation System. The system handles the
		 claims that are being raised and goes to higher authority for approval, once the approval is done 
           those claims are being marked as approved and removed if the claim is rejected then a refusal 
		 request goes to that person for reclaim.
				
Team Member : 3
Technology Used : MVC 3, JSP, JDBC, MySQL, CSS and Javascript.
Software :  :  Eclipse Kepler, MySQL.

IT EXPERTISE & TECHNOLOGIES

⇨ Programming Languages	-	C, Core Java, J2EE.
⇨ Web Technologies			-	Jsp, Servlets, HTML, Spring MVC with Hibernate.
⇨ Frameworks					-	MVC Framework, Struts 1.2, Struts 2.0, Spring.
⇨ IDEs								-	Eclipse(Luna), NetBeans, EditPlus.
⇨ Server							-	Apache Tomcat.
⇨ Operating Systems			-	Windows(XP,7, 8.1).
⇨ Databases						-	Oracle 10g, MySQL, Derby-10.10.2.0.

INTERNSHIP/TRAINING

Training Institute                               Technology                                             Duration
Hewlett Packard                    	              Core Java                                                10th June 2011 to 23th July 2011

Project Title : “Online Crime Reporting System”
Description: A web application that aims to make easy for the people to raise their F.I.R complaints using the portal which is being tracked by the higher officials.
Team Member : 3
Technology Used : Java Servlet and Jsp,
Software :  Eclipse Juno, Oracle 10g.


ACADEMIA

⇨ Bachelor of Technology (Computer Science and Engineering) from Integral University Lucknow in 2012 (secured 66.54%).
⇨ Class 12th from S.H.L.J.I.C.Kichhauchha Ambedkarnagar (UP Board) secured 64.20% in 2004.
⇨ Class 10th from S.H.L.J.I.C.Kichhauchha Ambedkarnagar (UP Board) secured 56.83% in 2002.


ACADEMIC PROJECT

PROJECT : “MULTI-STOREY PARKING MANAGEMENT”
Description : A multi-storey park is a building designed for vehicle parking and where there are a number of floors or levels on which parking takes place. It is essentially a stacked vehicle park. It provide lower building cost per parking slot, as they typically require less building volume and  less ground area than a conventional facility with the same capacity. It is suitable for large parking of several hundred vehicle spaces, such as public parking with hourly and monthly rates for large buildings.

Technology Used	:  Java Swing and AWT.
Team Member : 4
Tools		:  NetBeans IDE, MySQL Server.

EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

⇨ Medallion from Red Cross and St. John Ambulance Association.
⇨ Organized Technical Events at college level.
⇨ Member of Computer Society of India(C.S.I.).
⇨ Participated in workshop on Robotics conducted by Integral University Lucknow.

HOBBIES

⇨    Web Browsing and Listening music.

PERSONAL DETAILS

Date of Birth			:	15-July-1987.
Contact Address		:	#54 S.N, Hostel, Room no. 35, Roopena Agrahara, Hosur Road 560068, Bangalore.
Mobile					:	+91-7795183583
Languages known	:	English, Hindi, Urdu.
Location preference  :	 Bangalore.

Mrinal Kumar 
 
Having 1.8 years of experience in Java/J2EE, Struts, Spring, frameworks as a java developer,Experience with JAVA/J2EE(Servlet,JDBC,JSP)and Working in team development environment
 
 
• Current Designation: Associate Software Programmer
• Current Company: Blue Star InfoTech
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Delhi / NCR,Hyderabad
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 25 Jul 1990 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 1 Year(s) 8 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.80 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 1 Month
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 1111111111
 
• Email: mrinal1990@outlook.com Verified
• Address: Samastipur,Bihar, samastpur - 848133
 
• Key Skills: Struts,CoreJAVA,J2EE,Servlet,JSP,JDBC,JSTL,HTML,OOP's,Multithreading,Collection, Serialization,Reflection API, Maven,Log4J,Ant,Cvs,Tomcat.
 
Verified :  Email - id
 
ID: 1a41756f2c5da09e08Last Active: 12-Oct-14Last Modified: 2-Oct-14Report Resume
 



Mrinal Kumar						E-Mail-: mrinal1990@outlook.com
Mobile : +91-8892753353                                           	 

Objective                                             


       To achieve a challenging position in Software Development in a result oriented company, where acquired skills and education will be utilized towards continuous growth and advancement with challenging projects.      



Summary of Experience                                                  


• Having 1+ years of Experience in IT Industry in Developing Web Based and Enterprise Applications using   Java  and  J2EE Technologies. 
• Experience in Developing Applications using Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC.
• Experience in Developing Applications using Struts framwork.
• Experience in J2EE Design Patterns.

Organizational Experience 

• Working for Blue Star InfoTech Bangalore from  Dec 2012 to till date.

Academic Background                                                

• B.Tech (computer science & Engineering) from West Bengal University Of Technology  in 2013

Skill Set                                               

Operating System		: 	Windows 7/98/2000/XP
Languages/Scripts		: 	Java, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML
J2EE Technologies		: 	JDBC, Servlet, JSP.
Frameworks			:	Hibernate, Spring, Struts.
App/Web Servers		: 	Web logic,  Apache Tomcat 
RDBMS			: 	Oracle-10g, MySQL
IDE				:             Eclipse, My Eclipse









PROJECT PROFILE:
PROJECT#1          :  Health care system               			  (July 2013- till date)

Client Name          :  cala provincial hospital, South Africa
Team Size             :  8
Role                       :  Member Technical Staff
Environment         : Core Java, JSP, Struts, JDBC,  Eclipse

Description   :
       This project is a total solution for Hospital Administration, seamlessly integrates the activities and functions of various entities involved in a typical health care environment like Patients, Doctors, Tests and Scans, Treatments, Blood Bank. Provides facility to compensate doctors in multiple ways based upon number of visits, number of patients examined salary or revenue sharing with hospital on the billing of the patients examined and /or treated.

Responsibilities:
• Designing JSP’s as per the Requirement.
• Implementing Action Classes.
• Implementing Form Beans and their Validations.
• Implementing Custom Validations as per the Requirement.
• Implementing Page layouts using Tiles Framework.
• Writing DAO’s and their implementations With JDBC



Personal Detail
Nationality
Indian
Date of Birth                           
25th July 1990
Gender
Male
Languages Known  
English, Hindi,Bengali



Declaration:

 I hereby declare that all the information stated above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

Place : Bangalore.                                                                                     Mrinal Kumar
4


NARENDRA MOHAN PRASAD (6+ years of exp.)
 E-mail: narendra.mohan@yahoo.com	Mobile No: 9886910280

OBJECTIVE: Seeking position as Technical Lead/Team lead, to enhance my technical and team building capabilities, using my old experience and new challenges together.

Summary:
• Having 6 years and a month of experience in development using technologies like Java, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Web services and XML.
• Experience in Life Science domain.
• Experience in all the phases of software development lifecycle (SDLC) of a project.
• Experience in Agile Sprint methodology.
• Sound experience in technologies like Struts, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, XML.
• Hands-on experience in Java / J2EE Technologies & tools and design patterns.

Technical Skills:
 
Languages
Java (core Java, Multithreading, JDBC, Java Beans).
Entreprise components
 JSP, Servlet.
Application/Web Servers
Apache Tomcat, Weblogic 9.2, IBM Websphere
Tools and IDE
Eclipse, Intellij Idea, Ant, Maven, OpenSSO                            
Frameworks
Jakarta Struts, Eclipse link, Spring,
Databases
MS SQL Server, Oracle 10g
Web UI
Ext JS
Reporting
J Free Chart, Fusion Chart, FOP
Verticals
Life Sciences

ACHIEVMETS 
• Awarded an Xtra Mile award in 2011.
• Promoted as Tech Lead in Jan 2011.
• Promoted as Principal Software Engineer Jan 2009
• Awarded as Star Performer for Jan 2008.
• Promoted as Sr. Software Engineer at Jun 2007.

EXPERIENCE 
ARIS GLOBAL, Bangalore                                                                                 		Aug, 2006-Till Date
Position: Tech Lead
URL (www.arisglobal.com)
 
For more than 20 years, Aris Global has pioneered the advancement of drug safety, drug safety monitoring, pharmacovigilance, regulatory compliance, medical information and clinical trials management software.
Solutions are designed to help all life sciences organizations facilitate regulatory compliance, manage risk and improve operational efficiency.
Currently working on
To enhance the technologies capabilities for ARISg from JDBC connection to data source using Spring JDBC Template and DBCP for creating multiple database or data source support, we are upgrading system with the Spring IOC and struts action support. 
Worked on the following project, which are summaries as below:
1) ARIS (Adverse Reaction Information System):
ARISg is the world's leading pharmacovigilance and clinical safety system for good reason, with more than 300 life-science companies maintaining their critical safety data in ARISg worldwide. ARISg is the adverse event reporting software that provides all the functionality required to meet your regulatory obligations, from case entry to compliance tracking

It handles with adverse reaction information and generates the various reports which are in line with many drug regulatory authorities and handles reaction occurred during consumption of drug(s), and gives a detailed reports.
ARISg is the core component of an integrated pharmacovigilance and risk management strategy, enabling companies to monitor their products and provide early identification of product risks and safety trends.
ARISg helps speed up information delivery with the use of its configurable workflow components. Users can set up a system that meets their business process and SOP requirements easily and more efficiently by streamlining case processing and automating the routing of cases as defined in the workflow rules.
agOnDemand is the hosted, managed offering that provides all the features and functionality ofARISg. Unlike other hosted systems that are developed and maintained by third-parties, agOnDemand upgrades are performed by Aris Global, which gives customers the peace of mind that they have a "powered by" solution that reflects the innovative technology of the world's most trusted solution for pharmacovigilance and drug safety

Client:  Multiple clients (Takeda, Roche, Health Canada, GE, Baxter, etc.)
Environment:  Agile Sprint methodology, Java 5.0, Servlet, Struts, Web services, XML, JFree Chart, XSLT FOP, under Windows environment

There are so many features or modules in the product; I’ve worked on these following modules:
a) SSO (Single Sign On) support: implemented SSO support using Security Assertion Mark-up Language (SAML) version 2.0 for the product to the company common login page with federated identity server.
b) Homepage module: a framework which is customizable and gives opportunity to administrators and users to customize their homepage, with the set of available interactive views. My role was to develop and design the homepage.
c) Interactive Views: a XML based flow, which is converted into the dynamic reports and drilldowns to displays into the homepage and pluggable to any of the ARISg product component. My role was to develop and design the Interactive Views (iView).
d) Distribution list: a case distribution module, which distributes the case on completion of some activity, defined by the administrator module. My role was to allow data changes of the distribution list outside of the workflow if user is owner of the unit, and legacy case changes.
e) Literature Library Record: I’ve worked on audit trail for the literation library record, and some bug fixes.
f) DMO Module: Document Management module is used for the document attachment to the case and used with literature module. I’ve worked on the upgrade in technological enhancement. 
g) agEncoder integration: I’ve worked on the agEncoder integration, sending coding request for drug and reaction terms, and request for labelling information, and receive coding and labelling information from the agEncoder and code the respective terms. Worked on a report to generate coded terms into PDF format using XSLT Transformation.
h) Other: worked on some issue fixes and some performance related issues.

2) agEncoder (Central Coding System)
Pharmaceutical companies that develop new drugs are required to produce reports that document the effects of the drug. However, the data used to produce these reports, including information on health conditions and medications, can be hard to analyse because the terminology is inconsistent. Even when a company uses a dictionary of appropriate terms provided by an organization such as the World Health Organization, MSSO, data collected during the study may be inconsistent with its terminology.
agEncoder is a coding and dictionary management system where dictionaries are maintained/loaded at a central location and verbatim terms received from various systems are coded. agEncoder refers to an item of data initially entered or loaded into the system, reaction, drug or health condition information, as a verbatim term (VT). agEncoder maps verbatim terms to dictionary terms in a process called classification. It automatically classifies verbatim terms that directly match a dictionary term, and enables user to classify variant or misspelled terms manually using agEncoder Coding Browser. agEncoder leverages auto-learning capability of the system so that future occurrences of the same verbatim term are automatically classified the same way as was done earlier. agEncoder provides a UI approach to perform impact analysis of MedDRA and Drug Dictionary upgrades and recoding of cases.

Client:  Multiple clients (Takeda, Baxter, Orion, Intermune)
Environment:  Agile Sprint methodology, Java 5.0, Servlet, Struts, Web services, XML, JFree Chart, XSLT FOP, under Windows environment

Following modules I’ve worked on:
a) Background process: developed a background process which will detect the new terms, which is sent for coding and do the coding process.
b) Source system Management: designed and developed a maintenance system for source system information management system.
c) Audit trail reports: developed a reporting system for audit trail, using XSLT transformation and xml configuration for reports. 

BSW Software Solution, Bangalore                                                                                 Sep, 2005 - Aug, 2006
Position: Software Engineer
URL (www.bsw-soft.com)
Project Details:
 
IdeanaTao (Ten You)						[Feb 2006 – Aug 2006]
It is an online auction site for real and virtual items. The Idea of the commodity is to utilizing auction as the place of marketing production cost, selling price, investigates quantity, furthermore production enterprise, it is the sight which also decides the customer with simultaneous advance. It is a web based project where three types of users, one who has the idea, second who can provide the requested services for the idea and third who is the buyer of the item exhibited. Buyer can bid for the items which are existing or the virtual item (The item which is needed to be manufactured). Manufacturer can place a quotation for the request made online. Both bidder and the manufacturer can communicate with each other and the communicated details are saved for further reference. 
Environment:   Java, Servlet, Struts, JFree Chart, under Windows environment
   Kaishen Shukayo System						[Nov 2005 – Feb 2006]
This system is part of the ICC business system; it has four main modules construction information common system, the construction information system, the power failure information system, and the line debt system (Kaishen Shukayo). Basically all this system is related to telecommunication related works. In Kaishen Shukayo System, It is related to line (telecom) maintenance system. Through this system we can create new line information, modify existing and delete existing. Based on status we can view the current status of existing line. 
Environment:   Java, Servlet,  XML, under Windows environment

MicroEye Dicom Viewer			 			[Sep 2005 – Nov 2005]
MICROEYE is web based DICOM image viewing system. The Digital imaging and Communication in Medicine (DICOM) standard was created by the National Electrical Manufactures Association (NEMA) to aid the distribution and viewing of medical images, such as CT scans, MRIs, and ultrasounds. Part 10 of the standard describes a file format for the distribution of images. The MICROEYE maintains DICOM images and their accessibility of the users. Based on the roles of the each user is granted access to particular subset of resources and functionalities of the viewer. MICROEYE is intended to use by Radiologist and Doctors for analysing a patient’s scan results. Basically MICROEYE consists of two modules. The first module deals with authentication of the users and provides a full-featured search screen, which searches the DICOM file system based on a wide range of criterions. The second module deals with image processing and Motion image display of a multi-framed DICOM image. Other features are managing the DICOM image in terms of study, series, adding annotations, measurement tools, and other image processing functions like Zoom, Pan, interactive Magnification, exporting of JPEG, and importing from many popular image formats. etc.
Environment:   Java, JSP, Servlet, Applet, XML, under Windows environment

ACADEMICS
• Master in Computer Applications (MCA)   (2002–2004) from IGNOU, New Delhi 
• Bachelor in Computer Applications (BCA)   (1999-2001) from IGNOU, New Delhi

PERSONAL DETAILS	
      Father’s Name	: Mr Mahendra Prasad
D. O. B.		: 15-01-1980
Sex		: Male
Marital Status	: Married
Nationality	: Indian
Passport No	: F8340012 (Valid up to 2016)
      Address		: 3801/1, B-G4, Sri Nidhi Enclave,
  Gottegere, Narayan Reddy Layout,
         Kammanahalli Main Road (Nobo Nagar),
         Near Bannerghatta Main Road,
         Bangalore- 560076.
NAVEEN CH 
 
2+ years of Experience in Java/J2ee, Servlets, Jsp ,Hibernate, Struts, Jquery HTML and knowledge on Spring.
 
 
• Current Designation: Software Engineer
• Current Company: Sahitya Technologies PVT LTD
• Current Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore
• Pref. Location: Bengaluru / Bangalore,Chennai,Hyderabad
• Functional Area: IT Software - Application Programming / Maintenance
• Role: Software Developer
• Industry: IT-Software/Software Services
• Date of Birth / Gender: 27 May 1989 / Male
• Marital Status: Single/unmarried
• Total Experience: 2 Year(s) 5 Month(s)
• Annual Salary: Rs 2.85 Lac(s)
• Notice Period: 15 Days or less
• Highest Degree: B.Tech/B.E. [Computers]
• Phone: 9620582542Verified
 
• Email: naveencoding@gmail.com Verified
• Address: Vijayawada, Mukkapadu - 521311
 
• Key Skills: Core Java, Jdbc, Servlets, Jsp, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery and HTML
 
Verified :  Phone Number |  Email - id
 
ID: 09224162281eb7b166Last Active: 15-Oct-14Last Modified: 25-Sep-14

                                                   
                                                                                                                  Email:naveencoding@gmail.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Naveen Ch                                                                             Mobile:+91-9620582542


Objective

To build a career and reach higher level in a professional organization that will enhance my knowledge, skills and capabilities leading to mutual growth.

Professional Summary 
         2.3 Years of experience In IT industry as software Engineer.
➢ Good working experience on Java platform.
➢ Good knowledge with UI technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
➢ Extensively worked with Development tools like My Eclipse, My Eclipse and Net Beans.
➢ Proficient with Core JAVA, JDBC, Servlets, JSP with Tomcat Server 
➢ Experience in MS Sql and Oracle database.
➢ Experience in identify and apply typical Core and J2EE design patterns such as Singleton, DTO, DAO using struts with Hibernate.
➢ Experience in popular open source technologies and frameworks like Struts1.3.x and Hibernate.
➢ Experience in development of multi-tier applications using Struts.
➢ Excellent research, problem solving and solution development skills.
➢ Always eager to learn and share ideas towards new technologies, Good Communication Skills.

Education
Degree
University
Year of passed out

B.Tech(Computer & Science)

JNT.University,Hyderabad,India

June,2010

Experience:

Organization

Designation
Duration
Sahitya Technologies Pvt Ltd
Systems Engineer
April 2012 to till date

Technical Skills
Operating Systems
Windows 2000/XP and Windows 7
Languages
Java/J2EE
Server side Technologies
JDBC, Servlets, JSP
Web Technologies
HTML, JavaScript, JQuery
Frameworks
Struts 1.x and Hibernate 3.x
ORM Tools
Hibernate 3.x
Databases
Oracle and My SQL 
Servers
Apache Tomcat
IDE
Eclipse, NetBeans



PROJECT # 1
First Leap Job Portal (FLJP)

Client
Sunil Chandra
Team size
4
Role
Developer 
Technologies
Java, J2EE
Server
Tomcat 7.0.3
RDBMS
MS SQL server


Project Description:  

          First Leap (FLJP) is a job portal website. In this website student, colleges and companies can register and companies post jobs, students can apply those jobs and colleges acts as bridge between students and companies.
The following are the modules for the FLJP:
➢ Admin
➢ Company
➢ Student
➢ College
• Admin: - Admin is the super user; he has access to Activate, Update, and manages the colleges and companies, and students details.
• Company: Company can post jobs and search for students in advanced search.
• College:  College acts as bridge between students and companies.
• Student: Student can apply jobs and get the information of interviews and walk in via emails and sms.  

  Responsibilities:
  
• Developed Dao classes as per the module.
• Involved in enhancement of the project, developed the functionalities by Servlets and JSP’s. 
• Involved in development of front –end screens using JSP’s.
• Fix the interface issue with external systems.
• Developed the MS SQL server procedures to update the large data based on client requirement.


PROJECT # 2
NickVuj
Client
Ravi & Ravi men’s wear
Team size
5
Role
Developer 
Technologies
Java, J2EE, Struts1.x and Hibernate
Server
My SQL


Project Description:  
       Male consumers make more online purchases and spend more money online than females; they are equally or more likely to shop online in the future, and are equally or more favorable of online shopping. This project is easy for Men to shop.
      
  Responsibilities:
  
• Used model view Controller Architecture (MVC) Architecture Model.
• Involved in enhancement of the project, developed the functionalities by Struts1.X 
• Written DAO’s and their implementations With Hibernate.
• Involved in development of front –end screens using JSP’s.
• Involved in writing the procedures in My Sql.


Personal Details:

Father’s Name         : Ch. Nagaraju
DOB                        : 27-05-1989
Address                   : Mukkapadu,
                                 Unguturu (M.D),
                                 Krishna (D.T),
                                 AndhraPradesh-521311.

												


      (NAVEEN .CH)




